,ParkName,ParkAlphaCode,SignificanceComments
0,Great Basin NP,GRBA,"It has a unique ecosystem and it highlights the aspects of that quite well. The cave tour shows the significance of caves and their protection. Preservation of wilderness and natural. The history of the area and the amazing caves! The only park in the great basin. The cave is an amazing historical and educational opportunity. Preserving our national natural history found here, glacier, bristlecone's, cave. Cave, wheeler peak, Stella Lake. As good as any and all have a reason. Preserving a nice piece of basin and large province. Preservation of Lehman Caves and ancient bristlecone pine forests. The cave and the science of cave. Caves and landscape are priceless. Teaching the public re: a remote, unique and varied landscape, as well as protecting some of the oldest living organisms on earth. Yes!  Caves was ---- along with the history of the great basin. Wide range of habitats, cave, preservation of bristlecone pine, etc. The cave. Relief from the heat! Signifies basin and range eco systems, protects bristlecone pine, Lehman cave protection and interpretation.  Excellent education of dark sky. Being able to view the ancient bristlecone pines, and dark sky viewing. Alpine region in a very and part of the US.  Night sky is fantastic! Much historical and geographical history in an easily accessible environment. Wheeler Peak and Lehman Caves. Beautiful sky's/landscape. Provides info on geology, ecology, etc. to all visitors. Lehman Caves is one of the best caves. Preserving a beautiful, yet fragile part of the US. Preserving geological formations, natural architecture and the beauty of nature. The caves, specifically the ""shields""!  The landscape was beautiful. To showcase the different educational eco systems of the nations largest desert. Lehman caves. Geological history. Great significance as it preserves a very important eco region.  Wish it could be expanded. To protect the cave, trees and wildlife. Nevada natural history, just exploring. Unique environment. Bristlecones, Lehman Caves, Wheeler Peak.  Also male-15, female-52. It's beauty. To preserve nature and geography also geology of the area. The significance of the past and future is always important. Lehman caves, Bristlecone pines. The cave. Preservation of history, culture and nature in this area, hey, those Bristlecones are important. Preserve this area. To witness the beauty of nature and to enjoy time. Beauty. The majestic beauty of the outdoors and preserving the history. Unique cave formations, highlight the ecology of the great basin and surrounding mountains. Great to have public access to the caves and great basin area. The caves, also trees, mountain life. Nice cave. The caves-but the hiking here is fantastic! Very significant!  Very awesome! From my experience on this trail it is ---- but breathtaking.  A stable in the landscape of our nation. The ---- great feel of the great basin. An outstanding get away from the crowds in the hot summer.  The trails and camping facilities are great. Caves, wild life, geology, history scenery. It's geology and ecology. Basin and high elevation glacier. High, deserves it's protection. Lehman cave and Bristlecone forest. The cave. The elevational gradient protecting unique eco systems and the incredible vast resources. Unique environment and caves. Every park is precious to all of us, especially our youth and people of color who are under represented in park attendance/lovely favorite park. I love how well the park is taken care of in love.  I love the knowledge and kindness of everyone. The dark sky opportunities, alpine habitat. Beauty of nature.  Star gazing. Natural beauty. Preserving the Great Basin and the alpine regions here. It's an oasis in the desert!  A glacially created landscape surrounded by desert. It preserves species not seen anywhere else, along with natural beauty. Bristlecone pines and good example of basin/range geology. History can be kept and maintained. Am an international visitor-significance to me is the preservation of natural resources. Caves of the past. Lehman caves. Unique cave, Bristlecone pine ecosystem, Karst landscape and ecosystem. Bristle Cave. Location, elevation, caves are unique in the area. Bristle Cone Pine, night sky, ----. Being fantastic. Protective caves is very important. Nice place instead of limestone quarry. Preserves the history and culture of the great basin, a unique natural resource. Unusual natural phenomenon-saves, bristle and pines, ----, night shows. Desert Island and Bristle ---- Pine ---- It forms part of an incredible geological feature. Bristle Cone pines preserve. Not sure it is nationally significant.  Maybe great basin should just be a state park.  It's big but there isn't a lot to do here. The park contains a lot of unique, natural beauty in a small space. This park is extremely important and together you get a chance to see more of Nevada.  Beautiful state Nevada! One of the very best in the system. Lehman caves, beauty of Mt. Wheeler, Bristlecane Pine. Preservation of nature for future generations. Diane was a great tour guide! Unique natural features. Pinus ----.  Bristle cones. We enjoyed the camping sites.  Spending time outside is important to our nation. To preserve a beautiful place to re charge my (our) spirit!  For my posterity!  Plus,it's cheaper than therapy. Visiting caves. It is unique for the region and it's cool temperature attitude is very alluring! Awesome trees and ---- landscape important human history (---- etc). Wilderness, beauty and appreciation of the range and great basing the caves, ranching and ----/forest service rights Native American history, highest peak in NV high elevation in PD. Beauty! Hiking and camping. Preserving pristine wilderness. Preserve a unique place in ---- middle of the desert. National parks are very important for our country. Unique ---- was unbelievable from ----. Caves, lakes, wildlife and plant life. High. Between the bristlecone pines, the cave, and wheeler peak, the park is spectacular. It will preserve an example of the unique basin and range climate/ecology. One of the best 'small' parks. Excellent campsites (wheeler); amazing star gazing. Protecting areas for recreational use is such a nice ---- for citizens. The trails and caves here were awesome. The history of value of gaining knowledge. We are loving our national parks to death. We need more of them. We are native ---- and love coming up here to see the wonders and escape the desert heat. Endurance. Outing ecological/scenic significance. No. Caves and bristlecones. Preserve our beautiful lands for hiking and viewing. History is always significant when it is true. Unique geology, bristle cones. For me, the caves are significant because of the beauty and the historical significance. To preserve natural locations. To preserve these natural wonders so we can enjoy them for years to come. Breathtaking scenery, stars, seclusion, variety of environments in one place! One of a kind.  Unique. Lehman Caves, Bristlecones Pines and Wheeler's Peak are sites that I haven't seen anywhere. The caves and natural areas to be protected from urbanization. It is an island of forest in the middle of the desert! A basin and range park.  Nevada mountains need representing. Caves, geological history. Glacier feature, great wilderness, low crowds. Nature and camping. To provide water to the Great Basin. Stunning wilderness, glorious beauty, remoteness (chance to be away from crowds and just enjoy nature), wildlife. Variety of altitude and experiences with the flora and fauna. Lehman Caves-the island of mountain oasis in the middle of the desert.  Loved the Bristlecone forest-must be protected. Preservation of unique cave and pine trees. The cave. Unique natural assets.  Only N.P in NV. Nation's desire to protect natural and cultural resources and history. Wildlife and plant diversity, caves and sights make the park significant in the nation. A great experience seeing something new and hidden. Very well preserved ecosystem and just a beautiful spot. Not significance?  The park is here because of its topography and features, America would have stripped it w/o the NPS. The cave and the landscape.  Also the night sky. I learned about a ditch. Amazingly significant.  The cave alone is one of the best in the system. Preserving raw nature in it's purest form, not enough like it. Nevada needs a park as well. The Lehman caves are significant as are the Bristlecone groves. This is a very important park! Ecology, geology, variety. Camping/hiking. Really interesting special geographic feature-amazing climate charges with elevation. The cave. All of the nature. Only park without bears.  Dark skies. Preservation of natural landscapes and cultural history for future generations. The Lehman Cave and old trees need more awareness!  Lovely! The importance to preserve open natural areas is crucial to quality of life. Providing information about the ecology in the Great Basin area. This park is very important.  People need to see the caves.  The educational value it hold. Great educational experience. Preservation of the natural beauty of the country. Wheeler Park, Lehman Caves, Mather-significance of park service establishment, Bristle Cone Pines. All the family outings available. Representative of all Great Basin ecosystems, preserves Montana habitat, protect Bristlecone pines. Nice respite in harsh S. NV desert area! 0 Basin, history, the cave. Example of basin and range.  ---- our commitment to shared space-natural preservation. For everyone to learn about and experience the natural beauty, ecological and historical significance of the area. Preservation of Bristle Cone Pines and the night sky. Preserving land and nature for all to enjoy.  Not typical of what you think of when you think about ----. Unique habitat and geology.  Bristlecone Pines (int. loop was very good).  Proud that our country preserves its natural wonders. The Great Basin geologic features. Undisturbed darkness. Nice cave. Protecting and showing this major cave. Just a great place to visit.  Come here every year. Ecosystem. Awesomeness of time and our amazing EARTH!!! Beautiful caves.  Bristle Cone Pine forest awesome-overall a great park. Beauty, solitude, recreation. Bristlecone pines-beautiful area and streams. Great history and natural significance. Informative, preservation. It ---- historical value, from the caves to the wilderness and wildlife. It's establishment. It's unique and beautiful.  A new favorite N.P. Landscape seals preservation-mountain range in addition to relation to Basin.  Natural resources. Lehman cave, dark nights (star gazing). The beauty of the park and cave and its uniqueness of being surrounded by desert. The highlights the ecological significance of the Great Basin. The caves are stunning, definitely a national treasure. Unique environment is dated, allows for quiet and peaceful experience. Protecting rare spaces, educating visitors about parks uniqueness. Wheeler Peak the higher ---- people in Nevada! Night skies, Bristlecone, butterfly's and birds. Amazing.  It says ""America"" to me. To teach about Great Basin and Bristlecone pines, but mainly we need more land set aside to remain more or less natural so people can experience it! Quality of life, great recreation area for family.  (Keep the park in its natural beauty.) Protection of unique natural environment. Raw beauty; magnificent bristlecones and glacier-caves! Bristlecone Pines, star gazing, cave hiking, remote, few visitors. Another iconic beauty away from the crowds.  NV glacier. It was an non alpine island in a desert. We were visiting from Denmark and found the park very interesting especially the cave.  In or opinion it is important to reserve and cherish the national findings. Teach about Great Basin area, cave formation, and the DARK SKY!  (Astronomy.)  Loved the Bristlerone Pine Interpretive displays! A beautiful oasis in the middle of barren desert.  One of the best campsites (Wheeler) of all the national parks."
1,Kalaupapa NHP,KALA,"Housed thousands of patient-residents over the years; lots of suffering happened here-important to remember; visitors need to learn this history. Historic, SACRED LAND. History and meaning to the community for outsiders to learn. As a medical student, it is very valuable to learn about the lessons and mistakes made by those who forced people here. Rich history that needs to be learned. History of Kalaupapa and preservation of Hawaiian culture. The home of the residents of Kalaupapa. History of Hanson's Disease, quarantines, medical practice/malpractice, community, religious. Lets visitors experience and visit an important part of Hawaii's history. The purpose it was used for our Hawaiian People. Historical monument.  Important cultural events (Hawaiian History). History of the Leprosy Settlement. The significance is to remember the history and its people-including the injustice and healing. The history-reminds of our attitudes we want to own but to keep at bay. The history of the land. A place to learn about the Leprosy epidemic and its impact on Hawaiian culture. It is important to remember history-both painful and uplifting. To preserve the history and enjoy the beauty and community. Significant of Hawaii's history. Kalaupapa has such history to share with the world.  Amazing national park! Very important that this stays a national park!  Please do not let us humans come in and destroy it with high-rise buildings and condos! Very significant! It is a historic treasure in preserving living history of a landscape and architecture; I hope it will be preserved as such. Toured by Kalaupapa ---- they are the best! NPS does more than care for the land, they maintain the luana and like that still dwells in the Pohaki. This is significant because 8,000 people died here.  It is a sacred place.  Please keep it limited to tourists.  Some OK but it can not handle too much. I think it is a beautiful place and people should really cherish and take care of it.  It's history that should be known. To reflect the patients and what they went through with being trapped within the ----. The history behind it. The Mana and the sadness.  Life's so special.  I love it here. The people of Hawaii were forced to leave their families for some thing that didn't need to be sent away. History in Hanson's Disease, medical quarantining; older HI culture. To preserve old Hawaiian culture. Preserves a piece of history. This park documents both the impact of colonization on native Hawaiians as well as the unique culture resulting from isolation. I'm Spanish, but it's incredible. The immortalization of compassion for the outcasts:  where government failed, humanity succeeded. To honor the people sent and the time they spent here. Historical, beautiful locations. A page out of time. It represents a sad part of American history which is not taught to school kids.  Awareness is key. Spiritual. Looking at the part of ---- care in the most beautiful places. Preserving the location and the culture of the people sent to Kalaupapa.  Also a wonderful location to visit to see where Saint Damien provided care and compassion to the people. Tribute and awareness of lives of patient and lessons for future. The history of the place, should never be forgotten. The historic decision around the treatment of HD. patients. It is the patients more so the park that hold it significance. I hope some organization pass on about HD include ---- discrimination to younger generations."
2,Cuyahoga Valley NP,CUVA,"Accessibility, good way to observe nature and preserve it. Great visitors from many states and other countries. The beauty in the area, from west side it is good to see the other half of the park. That with all going on in the country, there's still somewhere like this to go as a family. History of the canal-development of the West-United States as we know it. Canal very historical. The importance of natural preservation in urban area. High quality NP in a Metropolitan area. Sight Seeing and getting to walk with nature., The history of the Electric Company Town. It's lovely wildlife-I am totally against hunting in National Parks! Conservation of wildlife. Canal.  Preserving Natural areas. Great resource for large urban population. Beautiful. History-Canal/Railroads. Preservation of nature. Part of history. Preserving virgin land. Demonstrates how a ""working"" national park can function and thrive in proximity to multiple urban areas. Historic value. Very accessible national park. Preservation! Canal Corridor. Cuyahoga National Park is a wonderful and amazing park, especially for hiking, running and biking.  An amazing asset! Canal tow bridge with train service. It showcases the beauty of Ohio and what this country has to offer. Allow people to experience nature and beauty. Accessibility to NEO residents.  Not necessarily a destination for tourists, but a true asset to residents. Marcus Akron beautiful and provides recreation. Near urban areas, wilderness and overall opportunities. Social media!  Attract the young gens! Opportunity for folks to enjoy and appreciate nature as it is/should be. Preserve history-natural beauty. Yes. Green space protected for urban areas. Historic, nature, falls. Preserving nature. Enjoyed the lake and the falls. Really important need to get kids out. Towpath Ohio and Erie Canal. Conserving and enjoying nature. Chance for anyone to be able to access the resources. Mother nature at its finest in Ohio. The falls. Preservation, understanding civil engagement of nature. They Cuyahoga River is of pre historic and historical significance. Natural beauty so close to the concrete jungle. Huge. It's the best park with access to locals.  It incorporates the city with the country and is most accessible to users. The history and the lives of those who made it of the canal days comes to life here. To be enjoyed by all! To preserve natural environment for future generations. Has historic and environmental significance.  Placement in urban area between Cleveland and Akron-Parks to the People! Canal and natural resources. Moderate significance. To showcase a beautiful natural area of NE Ohio. Lots of historical value; e. g., canals! Had been major commercial route between Cleveland/Akron. Nature look. Waterway. It is great to have a national park within major city surrounding it. Makes me more knowledgeable of evolution of our natural heritage and added benefit exercise. The beauty of nature.  Tow path significance in growth of country. The canal and subsequent canal life was a pivotal part of history.  Helps tell our nation's story. The tow path/canal. Historical property. History-recreational usage. Recognizes the canalway. Extremely important! Trees=oxygen=very significant!?? Let people enjoy the outdoors and each other get moving and learn as you hike. Exploring the outdoors with family for all reminds us our resources are to be cherished. Top notch. Very important for families, nature learning!  Thank you! Natural beauty. Historic preservation; recreation opportunities. Investment in family. The canal.  Explanation of the Valley's glacier development. It contains much of the remnants of the Ohio and Erie Canal-an important avenue for growth in the history of our nation. It is more of a daily use park.  Close to metropolitan areas. Beauty of the land. Wildlife habitat. The only national park in Ohio and preserves a pristine area of Ohio. Natural beauty, wild life. Cupalaga Valley and parks like it serve as important gate-ways to the NPS and provide residents of the Cleveland and Akron metro area with an unparalleled opportunity to escape the urban areas and experience a sense of wildness and learn about the natural and cultural history of the western ----. Preservation of nature. Canal days. Excellent park for NE Ohio, love it. The canal history. Preserve native/natural habitats. Eco systems, history, environmental impact. A. National Park.  B. Ohio Erie Canal. The importance of the canals and the nature diversity. Reflection of our humanity. Beautiful scenery and trees. Freedom of green space. Preservation of history hand in hand with nature. None; purpose is urban recreation. Accessibility to NP resource where not previously available. Habitat-preservation! How the canals were used for transport, etc. Trails. It preserves the environment before mass settlement by Europe; preserves canal era. The best thing ever! Cultural landscape that represents a well preserved example of Western Reserve economic, natural and settlement history. One of the nicest-areas in Midwest.  Very few nat'l park facilities. Tremendous. Great recreational opportunities for everyone! Urban access to national park. Love the history. Keeping the area natural. Enjoyment of natural resources and history of region-Ohio, tours, wildlife, plants, hedges, etc., water falls. The human race is destroying nature.  It is imperative that we preserve what we still have, and make it available to the public. The Erie Canal. Locks-part of history.  I remember coming as a child-very nice to come back as an adult visitor. It is a preserve that we need. I have no idea. The parks are the ""lungs"" of our community-much needed and appreciated. Growth of area, commerce. I can't intelligently answer. preservation for our future. It's  beauty. Providing a natural walking/biking/observing place for families to enjoy. The history of the canal, the river to. Unique opportunity to see nature and learn about old canal systems. Great.  Outdoors, land. Preservation of a scenic area around canal and river. The example of geologic time.  And the history and culture of the Cuyahoga river. The opportunity to get outside in a sanctuary. The Erie Canal and it's history was fascinating. The valley and tow path are a part of the heritage of Ohio. The Ohio and Erie Canal opened up Ohio to the settled eastern U.S.. To appreciate nature gifts. I grew up in an area without a national park and the access to nature is an absolute joy. Preservation of local fauna/flora history. Recreation opportunities. History, beauty, wildlife, scenery, exercise, recreation. Keeping history alive, great for residents of Cleveland and Akron; and other visitors coming to Ohio to learn about history. Preserves all way and waterway of amazing creatures.  Preserves Erie Canal. Green space in Urban area. Need more picnic areas and grills. Conservation. Preservation of history-the canal system. The canal has so much history with the books. It's beautiful. Love what you're preserved and how you're made it accessible. Very important. Urban park setting between Cleveland and Alam proof of revitalization-re birth of areas that were awful not beaver marsh example. Canal history, nature study. Gives urban families access to nature and wildlife. I love this park!  Very nice place to enjoy nature family friendly. Moved to Brechsville because of park! Oasis between Cleveland and Akron great blend of nature and history. The towpath. To see our great nature. Was a functioning canal. To provide natural experience outside of the urban areas. Any nature space to me is of national significance. Beauty and sense of community. Preserving the history of the Ohio and Erie Canal. Natural heritage. It's a beautiful place to spend time, to get some exercise, etc..  Also, the preservation of nature is very important. It's our pride and joy. Fantastic! Heritage of the great utility of the towpath. It is great to learn about nature and animals. The importance of locks. History of early settlements in the area. A much needed asset to this area. History of settling the West-towpath/canal.  Natives/settlers conflict. Great escape from urban areas. Keeping the integrity of nature. The locks have an impact historically on our transportation system. Natural beauty; preserving nature-a major priority. Representative of diversity of flora and fauna of this region.  Significance of canal towpath trail.  Picturesque valley. Very significant to the greater Cleveland area. Close to urban areas/population. An example of our nations' natural beauty and our freedom to enjoy. Preserving the history of early settlements in the area and their utilization of natural resources. It is a great experience as is being American. Great place for day visits. Important. Very important! Keeping the space as a park. It's important to have a park nearby so we can be with nature and preserve it. Canal history. History of the Cuyahoga and the canal. Open to all! There is a certain nostalgia about visiting, the experience is really appreciated. The river. To learn history and part of how Ohio was formed.  Gets people out and moving and promotes friendships. Preservation of historic Ruil systems, cars etc and the historic story of mans ---- on nature with his destination. Also the ability to reverse the damage through ---- and preservation. Recreation. Environmental. Towpath, RR, hiking trails.  All year availability for all different activities. Great history. Size, beauty."
3,Carl Sandburg Home NHS,CARL,"History, literature, nature and love. Carl Sandburg was and is one of our nation's for most writers and poets.  He represented all of America in his writing. Providers information and experiences to share this important person in U.S. history. A gem for western North Carolina. Education about sandbur's cultural and historical significance and life of their times, nature and farming. Public recreation; outdoors use=hiking, etc. Sandburg's writings-intellect.  His total experience as an American-from hobo to Pulitzer prize winner. To learn about poetry and history. Carl Sandburg's live AND his wife's! Very significant to our local area, state, and the nation, and to the park service. Preserving the importance of a well-known author. Provides info about important figure in American Lit. I appreciate the honoring of someone so ---- in the arts who lived in NC. Great. To preserve our national treasures-esp. land. ---- ---- Carl Sandburg as nationally renowned poet, wife ahead of her time, goat farm and cheese making and a preserved way of life/local history and culture. Education, health, beauty. It's awesome we love it here and will visit often. Very gifted author-wrote about significant president-very interesting to see how he lived his life. Learning about the importance for Foreign born Americans being a patriotic American; it they want to be/become one-like Carl Sandburg. It celebrates the life of Carl Sandburg-his love of he English language and music. Tribute to Sandburg and his wife-National Treasures. It allows one to step back into America's history and to re-live and experience the life of Carl Sandburg, a great American poet. Carl Sandburg-historical/beauty in nature.  We love visiting here.  We come two or three times a week to walk around the lake/property. Carl Sandberg's input.  Tax dollars well spent! Paying homage to Carl Sandburg's ---- ---- ----. Having taught American literature, including Carl Sandburg, I feel that this park is essential to young and old. Great opportunity to introduce guests to the life and works of Sandburg and his family.  We are proud to have a NP site close to home. Beauty and art center. The gifts that Sandburg brought to the American culture in his later years in so far as his poetry and understanding of the people of this country.  This was a repeat visit for us and each time we come we see something different.  Definitely a special place! Heritage of a literary giant. Well used.  Popular-contributes to health and longevity.  Deterate to crime. National recognized author and contributor to U.S. history and also to farming. Everything about it is interesting and historical. To pressure our literary heritage. It celebrates the life and contributions of one of our great writers-Carl Sandburg. A place (safe) of beauty, quietude and rest along with the inherent creature spirit, which resides here. It's use as a natural area and the historical significance related to Carl Sandburg. Preserving our history!  We appreciated local items sold in the shop. Beautiful trails, gorgeous historic ---- well maintained. Honoring and celebrating a very important American. The importance of Carl Sandburg, poetry and activism, also buildings history prior to Sandburgs.  Ms. Sandburg's influence with goat herds in area. Preserving the house (and goats) of an important person in history.  Also, preserving land for all people to enjoy. It preserves the legacy of Carl Sandburg, a great poet, song writer, historian and champion of the people as well as the great work of his wife! It preserves the memory and literacy legacy of an important American poet and author. To preserve the history of a Pulitzer Prize winning poet and author and his wife Lillian for her contribution of champion dairy goats. Should not be honoring a man that was a devout Communist and disagreed with our form of government and constitution! Connemaia inspired Carl Sandburg's writings are still ---- ---- are inspiring a new generation. The author is a historic figure. Celebrates the life of a great poet/writer and also shows how the farm was operated.  Great for kids. Mr. Sandburg was a well known writer. To preserve the life and heritage of a great American poet and to educate future generations to the treasure of his life's work. It educates people of all ages from the US and abroad about the life and legacy of an important American author. Carl Sandbury was/is a national institution. To honor Carl Sandburg and educate people about his gift to the country. The park serves an important purpose, reminding us of Mr. Sandburg's unique contribution as a poet and historian to our country and to our national identity. To show case the life and works of Carl Sandburg."
4,Hampton NHS,HAMP,"This is huge part of history for Baltimore.  It preserves our past, national history explains how and why we lived.  It demonstrates determination to not give up! Old estate, gorgeous and historical significance. Built in 1700 (mansion) history of Balto-families. It is a unique house for its continuity, (1790) documented history (by the family) and its collection of Af. Americana and Art. Largest home in U.S. at the time of it's building interesting display of period furniture and art through the years. It's architecture. Excellent-will highly recommend. Learning about the lives of rich white people in early America. Speaks to a period of time in the U.S. history. Very significant. Beautiful house and significant example of Georgian architecture and Slave Plantation. Education about transition from colonial to young nation and lifestyles of this family. Architecture and Maryland history. Founding family property passed back to us. What a gem!  It's so important to keep alive evidence of our nation's early history and culture! I am related to the final master of the house.  It was incredible to tour it and see its preservation. Post-Colonial history to Great Depression.  Shows slaves and slavery to all. This park illustrates the interdependence of the wealthy and the workers.  Helps show the economic effect on plantation owners when slaves were freed. Helps to see and understand the 1700's. It is important to understand the lives of early settlers, both rich and poor, and the influences on their lives, as well as how they influenced the development of our nation. I don't believe there is any.  Why do we have this Park?  Nice house, but not worth the expense of a NPS Park. The families that built the house, business, had a big impact in the development of Baltimore and the area. Excellent, will do again. Architectural history. Excellent example of early American architecture and furnishings. One of the largest ""Northern"" plantations historical ---- What was once a private home is now a facility that is open to all citizens and serves to educate everyone about our history. Important historical example of how ultra-elite lived through many generations. History of old money, slavery in the early formation of our country.  Keeping our heritage alive both good and bad for future generations to learn from. More local than national significance. Architecture, slavery, home life, beautiful gardens. To preserve early American culture, architecture, farming, industry in order to educate future generations about same. Architecture was good. History, architecture, nice tour-longer hours would be helpful.  We came first time, they were closed. Insight to MD. history/slavery. Details of prior living conditions, activities. Keeping history alive. Shows multi generations of same family-felt very intact. USA and MD history is so important.  Much can and should be learned from ancestors. 0 Impressed by capabilities of former architects and carpenters. Interesting to see the home and learn about the unique architecture and the people who lived there. It preserves period architecture and objects, as well as depicts two contrasting life styles of slave and master. 200 year history. National treasure. Historic preservation for educational value. History of an important part of USA. Very ----. History. Preserving ---- ---- 0 Example of period life. Major historical ---- in terms of the ---- and slavery in ----. Local ancestry and many land ---- life ----. It shows how the Ridgelys lived and how the servants helped to enable them to enjoy this beautiful site. Health and social slave history. Great history of ---- during ---- ---- very informative. High. The tour was extremely informative and educational.  It is truly a beautiful piece of history. ---- ---- ----. Just the history behind it. To commerate the history of Baltimore. Learning about the enslaved and ---- upon ---- early economy in the south ----. The preservation of our nation's history, both socially and architecturally. Provides insights into the lifestyles of both rich and poor in America, 1790-1900. A mansion with a history. Historic. The park ---- a beautiful mansion and ---- several tours ---- the history of an ---- family in MD. One of the first major plantations in Baltimore area lasting through six (6) generations.  Amazing! The deep history of slavery and early roots show through this.  Rangers were AMAZING. Historic home saved for architecture, furnishings. Life in an earlier century.  Emphasis appears to be on family and slave life. This is a very important, significant park. Owned by the richest man in the U.S.? Architect-design of the house.  Family history-history of Maryland. Very long history span involving Revolutionary War, position of plantation system and slavery, primary industry; architectural and historical ---- ----. The park is an example of working farm with slaves in both the antebellum period and the early national period.  It has impressive architecture. This park preserves a time so long gone, but is still relevant today."
5,Canaveral NS,CANA,"It is not built for tourist which is what is the best thing about this place, don't change it. ---- location, beach, ----, NASA quickness, peace, severity, AFFORDABILITY, great value for price paid. Cape Canaveral and Kennedy Space center. BEST natural beach in Florida! Great eastern seashore. Temperate/tropical zones meet for great migratory bird habitat. Unspoiled beach/dune expanse please keep this land/ocean area protected. It keeps the natural wildlife preserved, especially in/on the beach. National and historic value. An unspoiled beach that looks into the Kennedy Space Center launch complex. It's a natural beach.  No hotels or restaurants spoiling it. It allows visitors to see the wildlife and bears in their natural state which fosters a greater appreciation for the history of the land and the survival of the birds, alligators, turtles, etc. A place where local cities and tourists can enjoy the benefits of Florida weather swimming, fishing, or surfing. No opinion. NASA and the space programs (manned). Preservation of natural habitat. Running up board walk few weeks ago cut bottom of my foot on a nail down to the muscle! Preservation of pristine beaches. Wildlife and beaches. The coast has played an important role in U.S. history and the development of out nation.  Thus should be preserved. Close to space launches and clean beach. Pure beauty and nature. Very important not only for rec. but World Health. History and Pristine beauty. Protects the environment and the historic value of the remain structures in the area. Nature. History of the river. The space program and learning opportunities."
6,Saint-Gaudens NHS,SAGA,"Awareness of America's finest sculptor. To show the significance of this great artist to the richness of our society. The park displays the work of a universally advanced American artist.  His subjects were life like depiction of the most influential Americans of their time. To better understand bronze monuments which decorate our country, the time and talent of Saint Gaudens to create a lasting memorial. This man contributed significant pieces of art and added to culture of the area by questioning others together. It is an expression and recognition of what is sought after as far as our national identity. Art, music. The art and music! This park brings the work of an American master into focus, something all Americans can be proud of. Saint-Gaudens' work is still important today. Arts promotion. To bring attention to a master sculptor, Augustus St. Gardens, creator of our most beautiful coinage (sculptor, designer). Celebrate the life, work, and influence of Augustus Saint-Gaudens. Our cultural and historical heritage is vitally important to community life, we need new and innovative as well as properties that preserve and explain our culture.  Overall the park service is excellent at managing properties and presenting programs Preservation of areas that have historical, geographic and demonstrate our countries beauty. Awesome works of Augusta Saint- ---- and the total beauty of it's setting!! Preservation and display of St. Guadens work and area of inspiration. Telling story of St. Gaudens and preserving many of his works.  Inspiring many of us!  Thank you. Great sculptures of important American people and events. Very important artists are honored and their lifestyles showed values of the times.  Coin exhibit and carriages add to this as well as the wonderful gardens. It teaches history, culture, art and preservation for the future. For all to enjoy the majesty of this great country of ours. For the American people and the world to see and to have a proud reminder that our country is free and strong and awesome like the parks! My mom works here. A great American-sculptor, I know his work from the show relief in my more fun, Bisban.  Excellent park! To celebrate and learn about a great artist and the historical people and events that were subjects of his art. Art and stuff. Exhibits. Major significant to history of country cultural.  I adore St. Gauden's work and then everything is ----. To showcase an important sculptors work and relate his work to historical events. Preserves peaceful setting, home and studio where major American artist created some of his best work. Casts a spotlight on a famous U.S. sculptor who did American heroes of his era for public spaces in the European style-not done in U.S. before. Absolutely. A great sculptor who memorialized great men of the Civil War era. The beautiful monuments and sculptures depicting the time around the Civil War. Commemoration of humanitarian and visionary person who started. The sculptor and his work. It offers a vivid glimpse of an important American artist, his work (and the way it was created) and his circle of other artists. To inform us of the artistic genius of St. Gaudens. The fact that our history includes great artistic and cultural achievements, along with the political, military, and archeological ones. A beautiful place that filled us with awe at the Sculptor's God given talents.  A privilege to visit here. Art, community, stewardship. A wonderful cultural park.  Such history and info on the artists.  Loved Saint-Gaudens.  Educational. To learn about art and its importance in conveying important figures in American history to the general public-through statues, reliefs, coins, and public settings-including Mt. Rushmore. Bringing the arts to the people. This is to my knowledge, the ONLY national park for the arts! I live in the area and bring every guest and friend to this park. St. Gaudens was one of our greatest artists; seeing where he worked and his artifacts was very valuable to us. The Park stressed the importance of art when married to nature. Important to preserve Art History in addition to nature and political history. St. Gaudens historical site, sculpture and arts.  It needs more parking space.  Will need a larger visitors center."
7,Guadalupe Mountains NP,GUMO,"It is an outdoor treasure house of history, one that is available for all to share and learn. History of an era.  Showing future generations of American ingenuity. Fantastic opportunity to experience desert type scenery, foliage and wildlife. Yes. To show case the beauty and variety of the area landscape and wildlife, as well as the ingenuity and hard work of the natives and early settlers. Volunteer at Pratt's cabin was very knowledgeable and engaging. Ranger at ---- Ranch ---- very knowledgeable and engaging. ---- Geologically it is very important for teaching and for use as a natural laboratory. The geology. As a geology student, this park was spectacular. ---- great ---- To protect wilderness, wild life from private ---- or corps. History of the past. This is a great preservation of our national treasure! Please bring on more parks. Geological laboratory. Loved the remains of the mail house. Preserving our natural surrounding while still being able to experience them. Lots of fossils on the moon. Fabulous! I've been to numerous national and state parks and this is ONE. OF. THE. BEST. Wish I'd planned to spend more time here. Tallest point in TX-animals, topo and all things nature. History and preservation of wilderness and habitat for wildlife. It's availability to all with all necessary services. Don't get areas like this in U.K.!! Preservation of hiking trails and peaks happy to see families and college students enjoying park. The geology is VERY unique and ---- the only of it's kind in the world. Geology.  Hiking maps with expanded trail guide to understand distances. Securing the natural and wildlife parts of the park. Preservation and management of our precious lands. ----, ---- varied canyon in ---- desert.  Unique in the desert and probably one of the prettiest spots in the state. Very high. The geologic history/only place you can see an above ground reef sequence. Tallest mountain in Texas, beautiful back country. I was fascinated with the 3 eco systems and the history-really agree that it is N.P. material. Natural, history of western ---- ----. The awesomeness and just scale of the park is amazing. Awesome!  Beautiful! Because of the beauty. To keep parts of Country ----, unique Canyon Flora/Fauna over Fossil beds. Nature and the isolation and the preservation of the historical significance of the Guadalupe Mountains. In land reef. VALUABLE for insights to history, ----, natural vegetation and wildlife.  Citizens need to understand, value and honor these sites. Back to nature! Unique beauty, peaceful hiking trails, interesting history of this area and U.S. past. Ecosystem and open space."
8,George Washington Carver NM,GWCA,"In honor of a great American who this country, especially the South and Afro-American population, was well served by a great American than Ben Franklin, in my opinion. How adversity and discrimination can be overdone in a free society. Learning the life of George Washington Carver. To remind us tat George W. Carver overcame huge obstacles to become one of America's greatest teachers and scientists. Wonderfully told story about a very special man, couldn't have been better, thanks. Carver's contribution to society from where he started. Important to preserve nature, heritage and history in order to learn.  Education is not just in schools. The more people of all colors work together, the less racism there will be in this world. Very impressed with the history of ---- W Carver.  This is something all Americans should know about. The park honors, celebrates, and teaches U.S. citizens and other visitors of the contributions of Dr. Carver, incredibly gifted scientist and educator as well as cultural change agent of his time. Rural Education. 0 Appreciation for a great African American who made a huge impact on our country through his research. Being Jean ---- ---- he fan supported Martin Luther King. George Washington Carver. Very important, George Washington Carver, was a great teacher of nature and scientist.  You have a wonderful Park dedicated to him and his work. It is unique.  About a slave, freed and educated. Great. Carver was a man of God.  And was a man that work with little but achieve much. Found it very informative, ---- educational for school children and adults like me.  Thanks. Education about ----, ---- ---- and life long learning. Great knowledge of the affect of discrimination and importance of pursuing your dreams. Honoring Dr. Carver his achievements, and his exemplary life. MO history, US history. To educate the public of the contributions of George Washington Carver. Awesome. Education of a wonderful man ---- vision. George Washington Carver was an incredible man and his legacy should be preserved. I appreciate local history. Inspirational-you can do good if you devote yourself and share it with the world. Service! The preservation of accomplishments is valuable to all future generations-esp. in the face of adversity-we all must learn. A reminder about all the contributions this great man made. Cave was a great American symbol on interracial cooperation. Understanding, appreciating the contributions of a great person. Against all odds, a person can achieve ---- things. I did not realize what a polymath Mr. G. W. Carver was.  Learning more about his many talents and commitment to service is inspiring. Prominent person. Yes.  This park has a wide variety of activities for all ages.  It teaches and inspires people to do better. Contributions and life story of Carver. Educational-I didn't know anything about GWC.  Very good to know the park was established.  He was a very determined young man/gentleman. Very good-inspirational! A black man who came from a difficult life as a child, believed in himself and continued to ""press on"" and ""become someone"" significant. Getting back to what matters-nature. To honor a man who rose against incredible odds to offer his gifts and service to humanity at large. Demonstrates a person's ability to rise from any social beginning and become a superb asset to society. Commemorate someone who started so low only to become one of the greatest scientists of his era. GWC was an amazing man that overcame a lot.  His inventions and innovations paved the way for so much today. It represents the initial struggle for education for blacks and Carver's perseverance. Triumph over struggle, history of racism, agricultural science. Very important as a study in character of George Washington Carver and inspirational to current and future generations. Learn about G. W. Carver and his accomplishment. George Washington Carver was a pioneer for black people as far as science and education. Educational.  Insightful.  Thought provoking.  Very good.  I'm glad I came! Honor to George Washington Carver and his determination to succeed. Very good. Agricultural advancement. It recognizes and celebrates a man who overcame adversity and contributed to his culture. Preserve an important part of history! Recognizing an African-American who persevered and was a great inspiration to others. Teaching us love for one another and to use what God has given us to excel. The life of George Washington Carver. Incredible man under sad oppression and adversity. The life of Dr. Carver is exceptional.  I appreciated the knowledgeable staff to influence my spiritual growth.  Thank you. The struggles from the past (civil rights) to become a better nation. To show the struggles and successes of a very important man. Very educational. An amazing black man who rose above adversity to accomplish his major mark on the world.  We LOVED the movie!  It served as a great back drop for our entire experience.  Thank you! To highlight the life and achievements of George. Washington Carver. Preserving the legacy of a most remarkable man who over came great adversity and who set a wonderful example for others to follow. History and appreciation of a strong man who overcame struggles and achieved greatness with education. Honoring African-American history and stories and learning about their struggles. Every park has it's charm. This park ---- It lets us learn about a man who rose from slavery to a nationally known and acclaimed teacher and scientist. To let people know what this man has done and accomplish in his life and his life story. This park portrays G.W. Carver excellently! Celebrate an important scientist and African American. To show diversity and contributions of African Americans to our history. History-all very interesting-great place. To help people learn about someone of significant character as well as of outstanding scientific achievement. To reinforce that African Americans are part of our history too! Notable person of historical significance to all, esp., African-Americans; inspirational to all Americans; History of Slavery and the South; importance of nature. It is a great historical and educational site. Black history preserving the past.  He was a great man.  ----. The story or Carver, African-American pioneer of early 20th century. learning about one of our nations top scientist and teacher George Washington Carver. The importance GW Carver's life, experience, ----, science and -----scientific views. To show what Mr. Carver did! We loved everything.  Take care hope to come back.  Thumbs up. The man and his story. I loved the history about everything. I loved hearing the history of George W. Carver. To honor Dr. Carver in all aspects of his life. Recognition of a man growing from slavery to building huge accomplishments in his lifetime.  Rising above. A very wise choice due to the need for all together as one people. George Washington Carver was very influential. Honoring G.W. Carver nature learning. Learning about an important man and his contributions to our nation, plus all he had to overcome. The first monument to an African American. Inspiring, attractive, informative. GWC proved that African Americans were intelligent as whites in an era where they were thought to be inferior. To relate the life of a wonderful man who overcame as much because he offered  his life in service to others. The park is an excellent way for people to learn more about George Washington Carver... honor George W. Carver. Informational, education, inspirational wonderfully laid out and organized. Education. Good for the scientific advancements. Great historic presentation of George Washington Carver's life, research, faith and contributions. History of influence of G.W. Carver and impact on our nation. Kindness, service, hard work. Learn more about history, what a difference it made for his inventions, etc. to our nation. Preserving a part of ---- history ---- under represented minorities. Significance of history, slavery, agriculture and education. Gives sense of heritage and ----. It is an educational park to honor and educate. To show a great man and why we are all God's children. To educate any one of the impact George W.. Carver had on our lives...humanitarian, scientific discovery, religious respect, etc. Black History, inventions we all use today (Products). Very educational to people of all ages. To inspire our nation's citizens to be the best they can be. George Washington Carver was a Christian and determined.  He faced difficulty with focus, and inspired all Americans to be better. Gain knowledge and understanding of this wonderful individual. Born into slavery, worked way up into college, didn't let race or hardship stop his progression. History. It is a wonderful example of a man's determination to make a difference. Agriculture, Black history, heritage, history (U.S.). Outstanding historical facts. Young people (students) must learn more about G.W. Carver.  This Park is such a great place to come and learn! The history it has. To learn about the accomplishments of a significant American figure. It honors a man that changed the world. Very important to preserve G.W. Carver's Legacy. A lot of history; very valuable. Natural history that needs to be kept important. Proof that it was and still is possible to rise above all that strives to hold you back. To remind and teach white America about the contributions of Black America to our national life. Very important history for this a future generations. A wonderful reminder.  Deal with your past and press on.  Always wonder and search. Learning. The lesson of the value of the contribution of African Americans to the growth of the nation. Teach kids. George Washington Carver's life showed that anyone can rise above severe circumstances to achieve greatness. Tribute to a dedicated Christian ---- ----. To know you can make good choices in life and stop blaming society and stop letting negativity control your outcome. This is a great tribute to a truly great Black American. To recognize the contributions of an exceptional scientist, scholar, and educator. To preserve ideas and work ethic of an amazing historical figure. It represents what is true and good about our nation. George Washington Carver was a very amazing man and more people should know about his life and the things he did in the history of our country.  This park helps to get that message out there. We all still benefit from Dr. Carver's discoveries.  We should strive to put into practice the beliefs and attitude of Dr. Carver. Very-learned more about a great man.  Nicely done."
9,Mesa Verde NP,MEVE,"To recognize the advanced culture of people in our country 1000 years ago. The preservation of history and making it accessible to the public. Incredible learning opportunity about ancient cultures.  The demise of this culture has lessons for our modern world! Great learning opportunity about indigenous people and how they used the land. Preservation of culture as well/or canyon as natural features. Awareness of early cultures, environment dependence and achievement. Connection to ---- peoples. Connections to human history. Historical and cultural preservation of ancient Pueblo societies and dwellings. The only thing that disappointed me was we were not able to get a tour-already full. Preserving the history of the Ancestral Puebloans.  And maintaining the importance of their history. The history and recognition of ancient civilizations. An opportunity for people from Midwest to have witness to the beauty of Colorado. Preservation of Native American History. Importantly preserves an important part of history. It is unfortunate more Federal resources (i.e. money) is not invested in our National Parks.  They are National Treasures. The cliff dwellings are incredible!  The history and culture are very important and should be preserved.  The Ranger led tours were very informative and tend to the relationship that the public should share with the park. The historical significance. Keep it as it is. Cultural, historical, diversity of societal ways of living. Yes! Not sure, but the canyons are cool! Cultural heritage. Being able to see the back country. 1. Preservation of indigenous culture/buildings.  2. Outdoor recreation opportunities for public use. This park preserves an important part of the history of this continent, a history that is often forgotten. The cliff dwellings are amazing. Show history of Indian people and their struggle to survive in harsh climates. Very important to preserve history. It helps show the foundation of the civilization of our nation.  We are all part of this amazing evolving society. Native American appreciation. It provides an opportunity to view ancient civilization in a highly accessible manner.  It broadens our knowledge base of Native American people. Extremely unique feature being preserved. It helps us to understand that we are guests/immigrants as opposed to others who were here. 0 Cultural enjoyment and understanding of historically significance. Historical aspects. Historical significance. Historical site. History of the earliest people! Real history of US. Recognize and celebrate Anasazi. Thank you for sharing with the world! Very significant!  The true story of the US. Preserving heritage. First time here.  A wonderful experience.  We hope to come back when we can spend more time. Historical cultures. Culture and natural resources values, education, understanding; responsibilities to native cultures and future generations of all peoples. History of early settlers/inhabitant of the country. It's history. Yes. Maintaining our history and for that history to be passed along. Anasazi culture and how it sheds light on later cultures. Beauty and American's treasure. Having an accessible place to see and learn about the history of the nature people. Ancient pre-Columbian history. Our country's history and heritage. History, culture. Native American culture and history. Best park rangers ever. History being preserved. The history of the Anastasia people and their influence on life today. Unique cultural education great historical preservation. We need to preserve our history. The beginning of our country. Preserve the ---- of the ---- America. Native American history/culture. It preserves a part of our history that needs to be told and remembered. Continuing exploration of our history/----. Connection to the past society's and lessons we can learn on cooperation. Duo diverse cultural history. History-people-age-harmony with environment. Our history as a people of major importance to our youth and all ages. To save guard the ancient site for everyone to enjoy and preserve for the ---- of the people that once lived here. Archaeological and cultural history of the area tells a set of stories about who lived here before we did. That's an important story to tell. Excellent, I'm surprised it isn't a more popular place to visit. Great facilities, loved the ---- the trail brochure. History of native culture. It's a unique piece of history in a beautiful place. Preservation. Very important! Well presented sites of old cultures are important to educate future generations.  And these are just spectacular. My experience was incredible to learn about them.  (Native American) (Mesa Verde, Colorado). The ancestral pueblo who lived there-amazing to be able to see and visit, walk where they walked-so well preserved for future generations to learn history of people. Protect our past.  Save our beautiful nature and animals.  Thank you. Keep the park open and going. To preserve the cliff dwellings, it honors and educates the public about the natives of the area. History of the Pueblo people. Cliff dwelling community. To preserve history and educate the public. History of the past, cliff dwellings it was just wonderful. Important to see history here.  Interesting to see difference in civilization here and Europe and China.  Metals seem to advance society. Preserving ancient history/living conditions of Anasazi. The confluence of archeological, social and natural significance is unsurpassed.  Mesa Verde is a treasure. Fascinating insights on how people lived at this time in this area.  Protect the beauty of this place. Mesa Verde is a unique place in the world, and must be protected and preserved.  The history and culture represented is important and needs to be understood, and the architectural achievements are amazing! I like how the dwellings were undiscovered until early 1900.  It makes me appreciate these gems in our nation. History of those who lived here before European invasion. It shows our heritage.  Learning more about our country and all who share this great land was wonderful! Preserves the history of the original peoples on the American land and their history is an integral part of our current history. Absolutely critical that the natural environment and historical sites be preserved intact, for all to experience. Preservation, education, understanding. Yes. It's the only national park that is a conspiracy theory.  Fiction was always my favorite genre.  Cannibal. Anything that illustrates the existence of the first nations is of importance.  It allows for a greater understanding of the history of the nation. Ancestral ---- people and mesa dwellings. To beware the culture and an important historical element of the history from the USA. The history of the people and culture that came before us.  The cliff dwellings are incredible! To learn about very early native American habitat. Homes. The incredible history of the Pueblo people and their dwellings and survival. Legacy of the ancient people and how the lived. For my group, it was an interesting cultural and historical learning experience.  We all (ages 13, 15 and 50-plus) learned things we did not know! Our inheritance for future generations. The Native American cultural aspect of this park are very special and different from other parks.  It's critical in understanding our heritage. A priority.  Native American history must be protected for the next generation. It can represent human behavior in the face of environmental change and respect for different cultures. Ancestral citizens. All our national parks are our greatest treasure.  I have been to 15 and counting.  They never disappoint or cease to amaze me. The ancestral ---- cave dwellings.  The natural and cultural importance of the Mesa. Preservation of historical sites; educating visitors about ancestral puebloans. Learning about the native Americans and how they lived. Very important to know how the native people utilized the land and resources. Incredible historic significance, some of the oldest building in country. It allowed us to learn about the unique culture of this region. Show and preserve cultural heritage of ancestors. Safe guarding the heritage of the country for all generations to come. Maintaining the native and education of the cliff dwellers.  Open space and nature walks very valuable and should be kept for all. Absolutely amazing effort in preserving ancient civilization, artifacts.  A real look into the nation's history. Keeping the history of Pueblo Indians alive. Amazing slice of history much older than usual for America.  Wonderful to have a pre Columbian site preserved. Highlights our nations oldest dwellings and communities.  Show how first nation people evolved and as their skills improved and numbers. The preservation of the Cliff Dwellings.  This was a dream come true to actually see and walk through the dwellings. This park strongly impacted who I am today when I visited it as a child.  I brought 4 nieces/nephews to experience it."
10,Minute Man NHP,MIMA,"The start of the revolutionary war. A reminder of the courage required to build our freedom. To educate the public of where our nation begun/independence. Understanding origins of the war for independence. Paul Revere's Capture Site, first ordered fire against the British, various houses (e.g. Whittlemore), etc.-the start of the Revolution. It emphasizes an important period in our history and makes it ""real"" for those who have just studied it in school. It captures the beginning of our Independent Nation. History of the founding of our nation, how it came to be. The start of the American Revolutionary War! Very good I enjoyed talking to rangers and a stroll around the park. Perspective or historical events both domestically and from and ---- perspective (how perceived injustice can land to conflict). To remember that start of the revolution. Reminder of our heritage. It is the site that the revolution started and is of great significance because of that. I think it helps us to remember the horrible beginnings of our nation as well as the passion and dedication of those fighting for freedom. National history, American Revolution, transcendentalist School of philosophy (Concord MA). That it shows an important snapshot of American history. Start of our nation. We brought our girls here so they could relate to their history classes! Definitely a valuable educational location, and it is important to memorialize one of the first significant battles in American history. Where the first battle of the American revolution took place. Start of the revolutionary war. Beginning of our nation. Birth of nation. It reflects American history at a turning point for all of us lucky enough to visit. Everything started here or almost, so VERY important, namely for kids. The members of freedom. Beginning of the U.S. It is a symbol of the beginning of our country.  Very important!! Start of revolutionary war. Keep history alive. Revolutionary history. To learn the country's history. Great job everyone.  8/1/16 Cynthia Schmidt. It's a landmark!  Shot heard around the world, etc. Extremely significant.  People should realize the dedication of our country's original citizens. Liberty and freedom history. The history of how where are country started. Wonderful ---- of preserving historical landmarks, of interest to all ages. This is the start of our freedom. Historian. The story of the Revolution! Teaching about our American history and honoring those who fought on this land. To teach about the beginning of the revolutionary war. Great. Understanding our history and heritage. Birth place of Independence. American Freedom and celebrating this. This is where the revolution began ---- the climb ---- occurred here the U.S. would still be a colony. History. To never forget our history. High value since it is the flame that molded our nation. This is where it all started. Not enough space to explain. Historical back ground of conflicts and motivations of founders of America. It's where it all started! The trail markers could be improved ---- an app for each site. Marks the beginning of American revolutionary war. Birthplace of U.S.! Great way to teach the children and learn myself. Place where revolution started. Huge significance, big role in establishing our desire for independence, not to be bullied by Britain. Very important.  Good learning center. Beginning of revolution. It marks the starting events that led to our eventual independence as a nation.  It has great significance. It shows the true spirit of our nation. Our resolve. Preservation of land where Revolution began. Teaching our children about our history. It's the beginning of the foundation of our country. Founding of our nation. Protect the integrity of our history for future generations. Part of the story of where our country began.  Warning of colonialism, overreaching. Interesting to consider from the British perspective. Every citizen should see and understand what happened here. ""Shot heard around the world""-birthplace of America. The multiple media production was very effective in presenting the beginning of the American Revolution. So know better the past and to appreciate our present life. Excellent reception at Concord visitors center.  Thank you. It makes one reflect on the sacrifices and difficult choices our forefathers made as well as the ones we must make today. Old North Bridge-duh! This park is very valuable as a reminder of the origins of this country.  It connects the public with the history of the United States and the sacrifices made in its founding. ""First shot heard around the world.""  Minutemen drove Redcoats back. Our country started here. Start of independence in earnest. The battle for independence/history of U.S. as a young nation. US history. This is where the fight for independence begins. It is significant for the cause of liberty. Learning more about revolutionary war. Revolution. Teach history. National history! The parks are most important there is not any one of them that are the same.  It gives you a great sense of pride and enjoyment. To tell why the American Revolution came to be and preserve the important locations. The American Revolution and fight for freedom! Shot heard round the world-history, beauty, ---- of significant history, beauty, nature. It keeps alive the history of our Nation and brings it close to life. Where the War of Independence began. The beginning of the Liberty of the U.S. The National significance is to remember who helped us attain Liberty and Freedom and to not forget at what cost they did so. A great learning experience. A more vivid understanding and appreciation of our American heritage. Historic importance surrounding the formative years of the Nation. Other trails were great. Opening battle for the American revolutionary war. It teaches me how hard everyone worked to keep our freedom. Good back ground and detail for the Lexington/Concord start of the Revolutionary War. ---- Because ---- we have the freedom ---- have. It memorializes the revolutionary War. It adds more humanity to our nation's history.  We learn about there events in history books, but the park gives us names and history of these individuals. Commemorates a ---- national moment. It is where it all began! Our history and heritage. Our nation's beginning history is so vital to share.  We loved our visit.  We loved the Ranger talks. Battle at Concord (""The"" Bridge). Marks the start of the fight for independence from Britain.  Very important part of our heritage. Great historical value. Commemorates the battles of Lexington and Concord. Where would we be if the citizens did not stand up to being ruled by others?  We are close to this again today. Historical birthplace, legendary place. The events that unfolded in this park have led to what we are as a nation today.  Wars, poverty, education, etc.. This site serves as an experiential reminder of the people, choices and actions that led to the freedom we exercise and enjoy today. Huge-the story of our country. Birth of our nation-quite significant. Rev. War. This park is key to the beginning of the Revolution. Beautiful, thought provoking, inspirational. Historical overview of our battle for independence. Learning our nation's history. Love it! Public education about the Revolutionary War. Base of our country's history, beginning of Revolutionary War. Birth of the American revolution. Excellent! First battles of American Revolution. Lexington and Concord helped make the nation. Historical significance. Living history of the Revolutionary War. It means the start of armed conflict that led to the United States' formal separation from England. Interesting to learn more about the start of the Revolutionary War. To learn the founding of the country and the sacrifices made. Very good.  July fourth.  Perfect ----. Birthplace of American liberty. Freedom Trail. Very important. History-first shots fired. This is where our nation-as an independent entity-started. Minute Man NP is very important for the foundation of contemporary America due to American independence. American Revolution. Start of Rev.. History in the making. Revolutionary War history. Roots of independence and democracy. It all began here. Historical events that shaped our nation. Start of the American Revolution. Those who do not know history are doomed to repeat it. As the first shots of the War of Independence were fired here, Minuteman is a vital, important resource for all. The birthplace of a great nation. The start of the Revolutionary War. This is the beginning of American independence which cannot be over-emphasized. Birthplace of the USA. Priceless. Love the parks.  Have to protect them and preserve history. This is where the patriots fought back against the Red Coats/British. The events that occurred here began the American revolution and the road to freedom for all. The beginning of our independence as a nation from England.  We are blessed to live so close to our 4 children and extended family can experience this! Very important since it marks the true beginning of the history of the United States as a free and independent nation!"
11,Lowell NHP,LOWE,"Views of life during ""mill"" days. Very important in understanding Industrial Revolution/Labor History/Immigration.  Our Guide's parents came as refuges from Cambodia! Fantastic Urban Park that preserves the history of the Mills and Canals-an important aspect of U.S. growth. Excellent example of a planned city and the industrial revolution.  Unfortunately our Congress will not learn the lessons of it's demise. Experimentation in mass manufacturing, labor and social integration. It commemorates where the Industrial Revolution in America began and the lifestyles and business model of the factory workers. Showing current generations the significance of the Industrial Revolution and the impact it had not only on the nation, but the workers (good and bad). The Lowell military an under appreciated part of U.S. history.  This park highlights there compact on the ---- the ---- and ---- of the world. Lowell changed the world! 1st organized industrial city that brought WOMEN to work-Farm to Factory. Great history of industrial revolution and preservation of textile industry. Industry. Early industrial and labor practices that led to current/better situation of laws for workers. The beginning of the Industrial Revolution and the promise of Capitalization of America. Big role in the American industrial revolution. A record of history. Industrial Revolution criteria A of NRHP, Planned Community, and criterion C of NRHP. American Industrial History. This was the first planned industrial city in the nation.  Many other industrial cities used Lowell as a model. Industrial Revolution ""started"" here immigrants started here a lot. To document the history of the industrial revolution, textile industry and immigration in the City of Lowell. It was very educational in regards to this area. History but also teaching how the industry affects people today. Historic, Industrial, Architecture, educational. Critical role in ---- and Urban history of U.S. It was a great visit, being French Canadians, it gave us the opportunity to see and understand an important span of our nation's history. Pride in our country and heritage, learning about our past to what came before us.  Enjoying our nation's beauty! ---- ---- ---- diversity of ----. Knowledge of history of places. Very significant given the importance of the mills to the economy and the history of the state and the region. It shows us how Americans ---- an industrialized city and how its residents lived and worked in it. It gives a view of how our Nation used its resources and innovation to change the world of manufacturing. The place in history-industrial and economic and cultural.  I had no idea of Lowell's role. The history of Lowell and the Industrial Revolution ----. Birth of Industrial Revolution in America; changing roles for women. Educational. It's a melting pot for different nationalities.  Kind of a living history museum. Technology Urban Setting. I come from Lowell and Chelmsford, found the info very interesting and learned a lot about the history of my City and Town. It's the beginning of textile industry in the USA. Understanding Textile Industry's Development in/of our country-very interesting and well presented. Great for the city. Our cultural, economic, social history and present. Teaching people of Industrial Age. The history of the development of manufacturing and the impact on the City. History of textiles in industrial revolution. Preserving the memory of one of the great manufacturing areas of the US and of the people who labored there. Industrial revolution and changes in how labor was inforced. ---- museum loved hearing history from the workers. It shows how America was established and grew through it's industrial backbone. Early industrialization, innovation, woman's advancement (---- ----), immigration. History of the Area. History, easy accessible to the inner City youngsters.  Water Tours great for every one. History of industrialization of USA. Lowell represents the emergence of industrial America, that hid the foundation for our ---- global importance in the 20th century (political, WWI and WWII, immigrant experience etc.). Many immigrants came to this area because of the factories, including my ancestors.  This taught me what their lives may have been like. My understanding was it's strategic location for the falls impacting the cotton mills-55 large ones and 12 smaller ones.  It was done a good job of presentation the history. Technical innovation and advancement. Growth of American immigrant stories and opportunities. History of industrial age. It is a historical land mark of the industrial revolution vital to our nations foundations. The development of the mills and those immigrants who came to work in those mills.  Mills similar to Fall River and New Bedford. The ability to represent a significant historical past of our nations growth. Important historical site. Information on how we have developed our fabric industry and then lost it.  Hopefully we will get it back. History of mills and canals. I get to visit where my parents once worked.  I also gained an appreciation for my clothes. Industrial revolution in the USA. Moriah was awesome, a great interpreter.  Very historically relevant. To show the past. Major innovation center for textiles. First modern factory. Helps tourists and residents appreciate U.S. history, thus move forward with wisdom. To teach younger generations about history of industrialization. I liked how it explained that the town grew around the industry as did many towns and this can be both good and bad. Industrial Revolution. To preserve the historic culture of Lowell, the former Commercial Center of Cotton, and its transformation over the years. Great ---- asset. To demonstrate the development and demise of the textile industry in Lowell, including economics, politics and technology. Lowell was the manufacturing center of America in the 1800s ---- system to power the milk. Industrial revolution. Excellent exhibit of American ---- and environmental clean up of ----. Industrial and social significance.  The park has ties to the Civil War and the rights of all American citizens. Birthplace of industrial revolution. Show cases our country's history of mills, immigrant populations and use of resources. History, innovation, immigration. Very significant because it's at the heart of the mills and canals which Lowell is known for. To educate the public about our industrial beginnings and to educate the public about the importance of textiles.  FOOD, SHELTER-and TEXTILES make the world. Industrial revolution. Industrial history. Historically and culturally important. It preserves a slice of American history and the Industrial Revolution.  It is very valuable. The LHP details the impact of the industrial revolution ---- the economy and the American way of life. ---- programming and ---- explore this impact from Diverse ----. Beginnings of Industrial Revolution in America (water powered mills) and the impact it had on changing society. A history of the industrial revolution from the perspective of the mill worker and their place in the growth of our nation. It is an outstanding example of how industry and labor have impacted our history and how they've changed. Enables one to have some understanding of the industrial age in New England. It preserves our history and heritage allowing us to learn from the past. It emphasizes the importance of the historical story of the city. Historical significance of a mill city and it's influence. The complete history of industrialization in America: Virgin territory, town development, modification for industry, decline, and restoration/adaptive ----. History of the Mills. It influenced the industrial revolution and had cultural significance with immigrants and women working. It is a very good representative of early industrial America. Preserves an important part of the story of industrialization of U.S.> and the stones of the people that were involved. Recreating what the industrial revolution was like. Our nation's history is inclusive of the industrial (revolution and most inclusive of the role of females in our nation's fabric! Birthplace of the American revolution. Insight into early American industrialization.  Thank you! Wonderful history. History of the country-why labor laws were passed. Seeing a part of the economic development of the country. Nature-river, social cultural-immigration, historic-industrial revolution. History in making US an industrial nation. To preserve the history of the industrial revolution. It shows the history of our nation through a specific time period-the industrial revolution. Showing industrialization of NE engineering in 1800's and there ingenuity. Acknowledging the rise (and decline) of the first industrial revolution. Historical. History of American innovation and industry. Remember history and exploitation of labor. Preservation of historical buildings and equipment that were revolutionary to textile manufacturing and the building of activity.  Historic. Preservation of the history of water powered mills. Excellent educational opportunity for anyone interested in New England history. To show how a specific industry flourished, then died out, in our history.  Also illustrates labor/management relations that I'm currently reading about. It lets us view thru a window of time how we as a country got to how we are. Through architecture, exhibits, and testimony we learn about the history of labor, textiles, and Lowell. Very important to learn how a big part of industrial revolution was started in our part of the country.  Good for my kids to learn how hard life was back then.  Glad it was preserved. History of Lowell MA. Industrialization, labor and social practices. Waterway importance to ---- and country and history. Beautiful, wish we this presentation in Fitchburg. History of Lowell.  The park reflects the ---- of it. I think this place is great to let the visitors know about Lowell history. Rich history. Social history of industrial capitalism. Educating about the industrial process, use or (mills and their significance in the progress of society which Lowell played a large part in. Industrial development of nation. History. Gives information about how manufacturing was important in the early stages of the country. The beginning of large scale industrialization of the country. It is important to know about the beginning of the Industrial Revolution in the U.S..  You present a very sympathetic picture of the workers. Lowell was an important part of the American Industrial Revolution. Telling the stories of locals and industry, and Lowell's place in the scheme of the Industrial Revolution. Birthplace of the Industrial Revolution. Historic information about Lowell. Historical landmark to remember our change in the Industrial Revolution. I'm thankful this park is here. Industrial advancements. Social and economic history. The rangers explained everything about how life began with water power and how our mills ran.  Living in Fall River, MA, we grew up with operational mills and factories.  Love the history. To teach us about the Industrial Revolution in the U.S.. The textile mills and canal system being the forefront of the American Industrial Revolution. Preserves the history of industrial fabric production. Provides a vital understanding of the nation's industrial past, which is essential in our understanding of American in the past. Significant part for that ind. revolution that set other cities in motion. It gives a good sense of the historical impact of industry in the Northeast. Historic industrial preservation. Important to show Lowell's role as a planned industrial city. This park tells the story of American labor, business, immigration, decline, and rebirth. Lowell is the most important city in regards to the Industrial Revolution in this country. Highlights the plight of the ---- of the industrial revolution. First industrial planned city.  Excellent park you should promote it more. History of Lowell-fascinating. Imagine a national park in the city!  We learned so much about the mills and history of the area. Great overview of America's industrial roots. Boott Museum-I was told to drive my car to the visitor center.  I got lost for 35 minutes. 1. The modern industrial city.  2. The use of women employees.  3. The impact of immigrants. Not advertised enough. Industrial and cultural history is as important as scenic beauty. Well done. The Mills represent the Industrial Revolution in America, and so much of the Labor Laws that protect us today came out of experiences in these factories. For Lowell NHP history.  For others rarely use. Beginning of U.S. Industrial Revolution NE Mills part of Northern advantage in Civil War. Explores the history of the Urban Park. Detailing historic landmarks and significance of Lowell's role in Industrial Revolution. Way of life gone by Industrial Age. Represents important history that built America.  Lowell was interesting and important. This was one of the ---- ---- of the Industrial Revolution ---- ---- to discuss the struggle between ----. Industrial development women's issues. Beginning of industrial revolution. The dual revolutions that occurred here. It has a huge significance of our history as an industrial-capitalist nation.  Keep preserving! Key part of U.S. Industrial revolution. Important Industrial Revolution History."
12,Katmai NP & Pres,KATM,"This park is a jewel for nature, beauty of landscapes, and wildlife in Alaska.  The bears are just wonderful but I feel they are now threatened by the increased and new trend of wading the river for photography ----. The Bears and untouched land. Bears. Bears. Bears and Salmon. Bear Viewing Nature. Preserving history and nature.  BEARS! Showing that our Park can be enjoyed without commercializing. Preserving a unique area of special importance for wildlife. The bust up front and personal experience you can get with ""Bears""-on a par with African Safari for me. The Bears are great.  The Valley of 10K ---- is pretty dope, too. Bears and scenery. Bears.  We learned about the Bears and it was settled up for protecting the environment. Conservation of wildlife. A total and complete treasure...the reason these Parks were established is even more important than ever.... America is still and will continue to reward great. It protects a unique and wild population of bears so that visitors can experience some thing unlike any thing else. Preservation of the nature and its habitat. Preservation of wildlife. Preserving natural resources. Save the Bears! Show wildlife and information. To view wildlife (Bears in particular!)  So close in their natural habitat.  Very unique experience. Wildness!  Bears!  Salmon! Wildlife/bear- ----. Unusual nature display, brown bears feeding. An essential part of habitat and wild life conservation. Wildlife protection and observation (especially brown bears). Instruction on bear safety. Bears. Best wildlife spotting in the world (the USA today survey was right). A jewel of the good in the USA! Preservation of wild life along with educating the public about bears and Salmon and other wildlife. Understand about bear and other wildlife. Geologic processes, ecological features, Keystone speakers. Preservation and education of Novarupta and Native cultures. 10,000 smokes area and bears! Bear. Keeping the bears safe in their home, viewing them without bothering them. Promote wildlife. The largest natural wonder, mostly untouched by humans.  It represents life on this plant before we came along. Bar viewing is excellent. Education and awareness of eco system and wildlife. National treasure of the opportunity to see wild brown bear behavior. Protect of wildlife. Conservation of wildlife. Education opportunities regarding wildlife. Where else can you see brown bears! Bears and salmon. Watching bears. Place to see bears. Natural habitat for wildlife. Pure environment significance. Pristine wildlife and scenery.  Significant volcanic remnants.  Preservation of an important ecosystem. Protecting wildlife and promoting wilderness. This park provides national significance because it offers a unique sightseeing experience that expands visitors perspective and appreciation for nature. Intersection of humans and it's curiosity to other fellow mammals. Such a wonderfully preserved example of natural wonders and animal ---- Preserve habitat and safely introduce humans to bears. Preservation of incredible natural resource and protect ecosystem. Not 100% sure, but conserving nature is always a good cause, bears. Up close encounters with grizzly bears and salmon in their pristine habitat. Valley of the ---- Bears in their natural environment are readily seen. To show people the beauty of Alaskan and the bears and salmon. There's no place like Breaks, it's a treasure. To see unique animals in their natural environment. Preservation of our nation's history and wildlife. Preserve animal and nature, but allow visitor to be part of it. Wildlife protection. To protect animals and see nature. The ability to watch bears in a natural safe way. The bear and salmons Preserving it for future generations. Protection of bears and the importance of them. Unique experience of animal and plant life as well as geology. Awesome to see Alaskan brown bears relaxed  and in their natural habitat.  Amazing how close you are to them. Nature at its best. To view animals in their natural habitat. Unique.  Excellent seeing for bear and fish. Beauty, bears, volcanoes, lakes, man co existing with the bears. Fantastic proximity to wild life. Wild life. Protection of the valley of ten thousand ----. Beautiful forestry with great opportunity to see nature at its finest-Salmon migrating and Bears preparing for hibernation. Provides opportunity to see Bears in natural habitat.  Respect for wildlife. Protect habitat of Bears-allow guests to see Bears in the wilderness.  Keep it wild!  Don't over develop it. Originally Volcanoes-now Bears and Salmon. Importance for me is preservation of Bears in natural habitat. The ability to see the animals. Very good. Preserving Bear/Salmon eco system. There are lots of fish.  Lots of Bears.  Lots of dead fish = Sushi.  Who knew Bears liked Sushi. Preserving the Brown Bear Species for future generations. Saving Rio Grizzly Bear and its habitat.  This is an amazing Park.  Keep it the way it is.  It's the best I've been to. Preservation. View understand wildlife in natural environment. Excellent natural/wild locations. To save the nature for the future. To educate ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. Unique ---- ---- ----. Safe opportunity to see bears and fish spawn. Beauty. Fishing. Protecting wildlife. Natural resource (ie. Bears!) Unique. Don't build an elevated bridge because lodge is not moving. Photographers ---- tripods ---- too much space! Alaska is known for wildlife and ---- is a great place to see ---- wildlife. The bears at Brooks Falls the Valley of 10,0000 smokes. Bears! Conserve wild areas and keep them wild. An amazing place to ---- national treasure-the Brown bear. Bears. One of a kind, unique. The bears. Wilderness preservation and accessibility for public to view and appreciate it. To make it ---- to learn about bears in natural environment. Been viewing wild life, volcanic ----. Access for public to wild life. Makes naturists out of some of us.  It's a ---- gift to the people-our most ---- idea. Preserving a unique ecosystem for the public to enjoy and experiences under well controlled conditions. Wild life, fewer people. A treasure that creates future ---- of a car ----. To protect the valley and bear habitat. To boast awareness for brown bear protection. Interaction and education about nature. Bears in natural environment. People will learn to appreciate better the environment and ecosystem. Highly significant-but part of America. Very important. Awesome resource. Be at nature side human at step back from animals. Great experience. Being all to see nature and the wonderful ---- bears.  Fantastic! Continue to be able to view wild life with out causing disturbances to land or wild life. Show the beauty of Alaska and prevent it from being destroyed. The preservation of natural habitat.  It was wonderful to be able to ---- and be guests in the boars home instead of a zoo. Haven for bears at salmon run. One of the few places left that bears (and other wild life) has been preserved so the ecosystem is as it has been for years.  Also, ---- is an important part of history. Opportunity to view brown bears in their natural habitat. Protection of wild life. Still in it's natural state-wilderness the wild frontier.  Not over populated with cities like the other states. The bears. The national significance is that people have the opportunity to view wild life in their natural habitat. Wow!  Amazing experience! The bears and land preservation. The Grizzly Bear is a North American ---- and this is one of the first places to ---- the powerful creature. ---- Protection of Valley of 10000 Smokes, preservation of  watershed and bears. Valley of 10000 Smokes; 480. The ---- wilderness and the wildlife. Preservation of wildlife and wildlands. VERY nice and well managed facility. Opportunity to learn ABT ---- and the environ. ---- Bristol Bay Sockeye Run kicks booty! Bears and volcano. Bears doing what they need to do where there is plenty of food. Protection of bears, habitat, salmon. Educational. All national parks are national treasures.  Their benefits are endless! Wild Alaskan nature. Preservation of viewing of bears in their natural environment. Wilderness, volcano, bears. Traveled the world over, nowhere have I seen such a specific and guaranteed opportunity to view an apex predator in the wild. Education. Preserve and expose people to brown bears in their native habitat. Bears, bears, bears. Study bears and salmon in order to save them. To keep natural areas wild and undeveloped for visitors. The bears-protect natural habitat. Bears and salmon. Bear and salmon run. Alaskan wilderness. The preserving of the land and the animals in it.  Protection of wildlife and all that goes with it. The pristine environment that protects the wild life but at same time allows maximum tourist opportunities.  Low impact tourism. Bear Salmon and natural eco system. Bear education. It's an amazing natural phenomenon...wonderful places like this MUST be preserved and not allowed to be destroyed. Opportunity to protect and preserve Alaska wildlife. It is a wild place where animals are able to maintain their natural way of life. Preservation of natural beauty and a safe environment for visitors. The fact that the respect of the bears is more valued than the amusement of the visitors is awesome.  Good job! To be apart of nature. Incredible bear and scenery. Invaluable to all. Preservation of natural ----. Falls wildlife. 0 Preserving the natural gifts that god gave us to enjoy. It's amazing.  Something that we could never see at home. One of the few places to view ---- in natural habitat-in close range. View bears in natural habitant safely. Preservation of bear habitats. Bears. Tremendous value to public. Bears. Critical as it shows people the unique wildlife real time. 10,000 Smokes, Bears. Protection of habitat and wildlife, teaching and exposing people to habitat and wildlife and enjoyment of natural beauty.  And it's a great Ambassador to International guests a big way to encourage more National Parks in other countries. Bear preservation. Very important to preserve:  Protect area, resources, amazing Ecosystem. Bear conservation, natural beauty, unbelievable moments. History, preservation of nature. Nature, wildlife, healthy ecosystems, pristine environment. Bears. Preservation of natural wonder and wildlife. The ability to see bears. Preservation. Scenery and protection of wildlife. To preserve wildlife habitat and make it available to observe and enjoy. Nature, bears, etc.. I saw an eagle, the national bird."
13,Congaree NP,CONG,"The amazing trees. To preserve the swamp lands in this nation because they are few and far in between. Preservation of old hardwoods and ancient trees. It's a natural treasure, must be preserved!  What a beautiful park. Preserve history of SE flood plants and assure flora and fauna.  Also, a place of natural peace and tranquility. Wetlands, wildlife, natural significance of trees and available resources to animals.  Natural space to hike and experience nature. Congaree is a beautiful, scenic swamp lands oasis that is the #1 success story the NPS has on how the nation's people saved it as a national treasure! The biodiversity!  Old growth forest, demonstrating how important it is for us to not clear-cut, how important it is to leave things alone in nature! The wild life an habitats that are along the river as well as the lakes/ecosystems that would be demolished if not protected. Preservation of this natural area. Came to see the lightning bug/firefly. To preserve this kind of forest and trees. Bird sanctuary, tree husbandry. Floor plains, nature and beauty. Preserves nature and its beauty. The old growth forest and the clear, free flowing rivers. Best example of a Southern swamp. Good representation of natural, untouched forest. Preservation of old growth forest habitat, river.  Ecosystem for America to enjoy. That is has been saved. We need open space like this. Old growth forest for our kids to enjoy. It is the largest stand of uncut bottomland forest east of the Mississippi and its biological diversity is unmatched elsewhere in this region. Very nice. Showing people how nature is suppose to be. Lovely to keep a part of SC preserved for all to use.  We occupy it frequently. Wet forest is scarce around the world even. Gives us a chance to enjoy nature near city. Cool reservation. It signifies the preservation/destruction of the wet lands. Old growth forest and flood plain. The eco system is unusual. Wonderful place of nature. Wild life. Preserving the hard wood forest. It's a great opportunity to observe an environment between the midlands and low country. Great place to see water board. Preserving unusual habitat. Historical/culture significance to South Carolina-preserves our story, keeps it alive. The river. Save our environment and vegetation. Historical, preservation. It signifies the preservation of diminishing habitat in U.S. Beautiful greenery. It has a lot of great recreation. The champion trees and protecting them and their environment. The scenery alone is worth multiple trips. The park served an important place in American history-as a place that allowed slaves to escape on foot. The forest. This park is the only national park to which features very ancient and tall trees and flood plains. Preservation of original forest area, as it used to be.  Example of what concerned citizens can do when challenged. Unique trees swap vegetation. Absolutely wonderful it was SPACIOUS! Any park is significant to sustainability the eco system, the congasee is special to the southeast! Bio diversity and of growth for USA. Epic trees (bald cypress). Flood plain and changes in ecology along the walk. For all to enjoy.  To keep this undisturbed for future generation. Great and eco ----. Incredibly significant preservation of natural history. It provides an opportunity to study nature in a unique habitat. Opportunity to see ""grand trees"" in natural environment, plus other plants and wild life. Preserving national area and wildlife, sharing it's beauty with people. To preserve nature and history. Unique habitat. We need to maintain the last of the old grounds.  This is spectacular! It is a great place to see old growth forest.  It is a great place to take my grand kids to teach them about forest and forest ecology and biology. Large trees. Large untouched tree's. Preserving trees. The cypress trees along the river. To take time to disconnect and connect with nature. Very different from other parks-from west coast. Very tall trees and sync. fire flies. Wonderful and wild place. I think the wetlands are very important and the tree that grow within them. Largest growth of bottomland hard woods in USA. Preserving old growth forest we approve. Old growth forest. Nature preservation. Preserve trees. To preserve nature and the eco system. Bio diversity.  Unique bottom land swamp environment. The old growth forest. Love the Park.  Great time. Old growth flood plain. We had our granddaughters (4 and 5) with us-such a wonderful learning experience! Hardwood virgin forest. I've been in and through all.  So ----, and this environment is unique never seen any place else like it! Old growth forest. Old growth forest. Old growth forest/wildlife habitat. Same as all the great conservation areas such as Death Valley, Denali-a unique eco system to be preserved for public use. Irreplaceable woodlands and habitat. Vegetation and natural flood plane. Although it's not the prettiest or most exciting NP it is the most unique. The old trees are remarkable.  It is amazing to see such tall trees and realize they are hundreds of years old. It's rarity as an old growth forest. Old growth forests, nature preserve, BEAUTY unique and mystical. Preserving and displaying the natural wonder of the Southern forest/habitat, and allowing its viewing by all. Preserving history, land, peace, and outdoor knowledge. Unique vegetation and location. Preservation of old growth forest! Old forest growth; natural succession see how we could possibly live and farm here. Bald Cypress trees. One of the last remaining old growth forests. How this part of America used to be before development.  So many different plants grow in that environment. Protection of old growth trees. The combination of plants and trees and water flood areas with the addition of the special animals. Just one of a kind spot.  No place like it. Any time a piece of wilderness can be saved it is worth any and all costs! Tallest stand of ---- trees in the world.  Other-worldliness of terrain wildlife habitat. Preservation of old forest area. To preserve this wilderness for the good of our nation.  To allow people today to see how the land looked when the country was established. Gorgeous drive here and the most pleasant walkway to emerge in. Preservation of nature and wildlife. The particular swamp and ""infinity"". Preserving the forest and wildlife. Protection of a unique resource of the South East. Trees-virgin forest; wildlife habitat. It's unique characteristics. Love the boardwalk! Old growth forest. Old growth trees can't be seen anywhere else. The trees! Close to metropolitan area for ---- to enjoy. The Champion Trees and the geography of the land. The cypress knees are amazing. Environmental protection, plants and freshwater animals. It's beautiful! Old growth forest.  Preservation of swamp land sharing the natural beauty of South Carolina. Saving forest and wildlife areas for future generations. Seeing how old growth forests could have looked without logging. To help people see the beauty of the Conagree area and to help preserve the flora and fauna of the area. How much man has decreased the beauty of this nation that's to all the people that have preserved our true ----. Protecting long-lived trees and sharing a swamp environment with the world! Protect old growth forest."
14,Curecanti NRA,CURE,"Morrow Point boat ride very enjoyable! Beauty and historical value. Uniqueness of the area, and recreation it provides. Entry way to Gunnison, a historically important place, and very beautiful! Triumph of man over elements for settlement of all mankind. Preservation of a beautiful significant area of CO history. Main water resource. Run off for the West cost and habitat of the animals that live here. The use of water. The boating and fishing facilities.  Also very beautiful in areas. Open space, minimal rules. Water! Supplied by the Colorado River to 48 states!! Heritage. Railroad thru ----. For the story it tells about our Country's geology, history and water conservation and use. The beauty!  So proud to be born in Colorado.  Very friendly people they care.  Did I mention the beauty! Enjoy the U.S. natural landscape, recreational opportunities and kakanee salmon. Water storage/recreation. Preservation of the beauty of nature.  No where else is there any thing else to compare!  Man destroys so much-so it is necessary to protect it! Does it really matter if the park has already been established and has a ""mission"" or purpose? The preservation for all and could never be replaced if commercialized. Westward Ho!  After US got land from Mexico the railroad went West. Geology. Spectacular scenery. Preservation of beauty. Maintain the beauty of the area and allow access to an area in the wilderness. Visitor enjoyment-education tickets a bit pricey. Largest body of water in Colorado, excellent fishing/recreation The park is important because of its geological historical and ---- resources associations. Railroad establishment, history of American West. Access to the water of the Hunnison R. and the history of the area. Salmon fishing is great, lake is perfect for pleasure/fishing, boating in general.  I will be back! Any natural area, especially one as around: beautiful on the Black Canyon of the ---- is a national treasure to be enjoyed. The lake is awesome. Opportunity for everyone to experience the beauty of nature and history. Beauty beyond measure loved your park. Preserving natural resources for future generations of utilizing our resources for the benefit of all. Beauty, water, power. Beauty! Largest body in Colorado. Ecologic, water management, beauty. Pure beauty and water storage. To set aside a beautiful area for current use and for future generations. Camping and fishing. It has amazing beauty and is a water source for many states. Recreation. Preservation of a rare natural setting and experience a non-commercial experience to preserve a geologic and social history story. Fishing potential camping opportunity. Very significant to Kokance/lake trout fisherman."
15,Lincoln Boyhood NMem,LIBO,"To know Lincoln's past and why he made the decision he did for the future of this country. 0 To learn about how the upbringing of an American president influenced his life and future life choices. Very important! ---- ----. The history behind it. Highly important. Gives me an idea of the conditions under which Abe Lincoln grew up, and teaches us that one can be a success regardless of circumstances. A good piece of history and nice foliage and scenery. Recognizing the ethics of learning, sharing, hard work, and go after your opportunities and dreams.  The value of learning the world through books and education. Extremely significant. Learn of the contributions to Lincoln's development and early years. Lincoln! Lincoln, speaks for itself. It tells an important American story and shows NPS cares for cultural as well as natural heritage. Home of our President should be preserved. To help kids and adults learn more about the history of Abe Lincoln and his childhood and how he lived back then. It shows how Lincoln lived at the beginning of Indiana statehood. To educate on early life of President Lincoln. The fact that Lincoln spent his childhood here and his mother is buried here, makes it extremely significant. Lincoln. Good. To provide a deeper look into Lincoln's childhood. Lincoln's legacy. Highly significant in American history. Lincoln was our president during a time of stress only rivaled by WWII, the G. Depression and 911.  This is a great tool to preserve this history and educate our young. Teaching about and honoring one of the greatest Americans in history-Abe Lincoln. Terrific insight into our nation's greatest president. Most other US Presidents only have birthplaces or adult home preserved; this is such a rare precious gem. Just being the part of a great history and made keeping the knowledge alive. Lincoln's service to the country makes it important to know his life history. Preserving the history of Abraham Lincoln. Movie was best learning one yet. Abe Lincoln (insight into early 1800s rural living). The life history of Abe Lincoln. View of a president as a young man. Not only is it the boyhood home of Lincoln, it is a great way to glimpse life for people living in the area at the time. If all could come and learn more of is foundation and upbringing, they would value more how he was prepared for his trying years as President! A tremendous perspective of one of our greatest leaders! Formed the values of our President. To understand the life and environment of the times in Lincoln's early years. Honors our 16th president, his youth, growth and life.  Very informative. Important to young boys about the history of Abe Lincoln. Lincoln and this park tell what is nation was founded on and for.  Bar relief's are excellent great info, will plant squash seeds pass on to others. This is the formative years of Abraham Lincoln's life. Education of Abraham Lincoln's early years. It's all about Lincoln's family and how it helped shape Abe into who he became. Provides a better understanding and history of one of the Nation's best Presidents. Abe Lincoln boyhood home place-very important piece of history. History about Lincoln awesome. Lincoln ---- from childhood through teen years. Honoring our President. Memorial to Abe Lincoln, and great educational opportunity to learn and see how his early years were. President Lincoln was one of the USA's best. Being able to take my kids to this park open sup tremendous conversation. Abe Lincoln's past home. Lincoln is extremely important.  All aspects of his life needs to be remembered. President Lincoln was the greatest president of the U.S., and a role model for young people and adults. It brings us close to our greatest president during his formative years. It is a good reminder of our nation's melting pot and how anyone can make a positive difference. Lincoln was the greatest president! Lincoln's boyhood home-and the years prior to when he crossed the Wabash at Vincennes. It helped show what life was like for the time period of early 1800's as well as important American president. Memorial to A. Lincoln and his life and family.  Plus it is a natural area that needs to be preserved. Depiction of Lincoln's early formative years in Indiana! It has significance as a historical site I think. Shows early history and formative years of one of the most important presidents. Visiting Lincoln's boyhood home. Learning about homes and settlement of the period. How Lincoln's child hood shaped him into the man we all know as the 16th President of the USA. Remembering Mr. Lincoln and our heritage.  Wonderful information by the ""resource"" people! To honor and pass on the early years of Abe Lincoln and what life was like at that time. Lincoln's boyhood. It tells the story of a person who was significant to the development of our country and culture. To honor the family and early life of Abraham Lincoln had to learn how people lived and worked in that area at that time. For me, it was important to see the hardships endured, the self-made aspects of pioneer (and Lincoln's) character and the level of determination to succeed they possessed. Great place to visit to walk in the foot steps of Lincoln and see how/where he grew up. Abraham Lincoln's life was a significant part of US history. This park is a little known gem in the Natl. Park system.  Impressive visitor center, beautifully laid out grounds, trails and living history homestead. Giving tourists and local visitors an opportunity to learn about the state and living in the forest. The Indiana home of Abraham Lincoln where the boy became a man. Good to show historical places.  Many other Bayhood homes or birthplaces are under state jurisdiction.  Why is this Nat'l. Boyhood home of our 16th president."
16,Cowpens NB,COWP,"Turning point in Southern Campaign leading directly to Yorktown and recovery of S. Carolina. Tells about one of turning point in the war for our independence. Changed the spirit of the continental army! It shows the battlefield tactics and conditions that allowed us to beat a superior force. It shows how the southern campaign was important and ---- cow pens was about to the American revolution. It shows the honor of our forefather's in trail fight for liberty and as an example for free Americans. It teaches about an important event which is a pivotal moment in our history.  It is a testament to the sacrifice from ancestors. Good for more learning about our American history. The Battle of Cowpens saved the south. Revolutionary history in south. Vital to the outcome of the American Revolution. Nice job-great rangers, fun visit! It vividly brings to life an important event in American history. It was great. A reminder of what occurred and what took placed time when our independence was at issue of our nation's future was at stake. Extremely significant. Important Revolutionary War victory. Important.  Gives good perspective of ordinary people. It reminds us of our history and where we have come from as a nation. Turning point in southern campaign of American Revolution. Great educational app for ride. I tells about the historic battle that took place here. Importance of revolution and our indp. from Britain. It was a great turning Point in our Freedoms. Reminders of American Revolution and how much the southern states played a role. This is a part of our national history, which is important to know, it was amazing to visit this sit and see our history. Turned the revolution war around in favor of the patriots. Very vital part in revolutionary war history. It not marked the beginning of the end of the British campaign in the south. Heritage. The park represents the nation and what it stands for from those who fought for it. I doubt most Americans realize before coming here that this was a turning point in the Rev. War. Important early history of our country.  More people need to know and appreciate what happened during the revolutionary war. Essential historical ground. If you can't come to see it you can't understand the battle. The significants in winning the Rev. War. Revolutionary Battlefield. To show our victory over Brits. Yes!  History is the best. This Park stands to represent one of the foundational blanks of the genius of our Nation.  It serves as a reminder of the evens of people who fought to found a republic. The U.S. or at least the Carolinas might still be a British Colony had it not been for Cowpens. Great service to show our children history. Site of one of the great, important Battles in American Revolution. Remembering our Nation and it's fight for freedom. This was the most significant American victory ---- ----.  it directly led to Cornwallis' weakening and ultimate defeat at Yorktown. Revolutionary War Battle won by the U.S.A. The park describes an important ---- victory and our quest for America's independence. Very significant historic site. Hear about Cowpens ---- ---- here.  Everyone was very helpful!  We loved it!  Brought my family from out of state. Revolutionary War. Turning point of revolutionary war. Freedom. It is a pivotal point towards our independence. Battle for our independence. Role in a revolution. Remind the people about history is always important to know where we come from. Key to Rev. War victory. Teach about our history. Extremely important Revolutionary battle took place here. To preserve the history of those who fought and sacrificed for our nation. A major battle in the South and important part of the war for our independence. Cowpens battle. Historical perspective on how our nation was built. History. Serves as a good reminded of the war necessary to establish our independence as a nation. History. 0 A significant Revolutionary War battle. I'm a teacher and important to NC history. It shows a very ---- battle that --- us. Major victory. Recognition of ---- battle. South part in turning rev. war. That it is sad and nice to come and see. To educate on the Rev. war. Turning points of War of Independence. Very-visited on 4th of July. Key battle in the war. I believe the battle of ---- was the turning point of the revolutionary war. Kinds mountain was the wake up but ---- Yes. Family being able to learn about the past, and what we got because of the war. I like having programs for my children like this close by. I grew up on park and doing same ---- my kids. I love the park staff very fun programs for kids. I'm very proud of how important this battle that was here. The ---- Really marks important part of our history which is in danger of being forgotten. This battle stopped the British's expansion it it's Southern campaign.  A double envelopment by the Americans sealed the victory. It is a revolutionary War battlefield. Significant contribution to our independence from Great Britain. Historical value. Under rated. Very much. Our birth of a nation. History-important for our younger generation is to appreciate the sacrifices then ---- for our freedom. Yes! Need to preserve revolutionary war sites like this for our heritage and to preserve the history of our nation. Historical battlefield with British and Amer. Very important. Best day park ranger spent time with us.  He was great! Great. To know our history to carry forward to future generations-priceless. A turning point battle in the Revolution. Critical for understanding significance of southern campaign. Turning point for the southern campaign of the Revolutionary War. Turning point of southern campaign of Amer. Rev. It preserves the site of a turning point in the southern part of the Revolution. It the won. It was an important battle during the Revolutionary War. Remembering the Battle of Cowpens. High. History. Pivotal Battle in our Nation's independence.  Ended Britain's attempt to hold Southern Colonies. This was part of the Southern Campaign during the Revolutionary War.  This was an important battle that led to victory. Great example of what it took for our freedoms to be kept. Yes. Appropriate to significance of battle. Historic significance about the founding of the U.S. Very important as a part of Revolutionary War. Very! I did not know that so many battles were in SC.  Very good to know. Turning point of the Southern Campaign of the Revolutionary War. Very important. Very significant, learned a lot about history, did not realize this area was so significant to Revolutionary War. Very welcoming and informative. I'm a US history teacher. It was great to see a site I teach about. Awareness of this battle and it's significance in history. Excellent significance cannot be ---- Tell the story of a crucial turning point in the Am Rev War. This park has a high significance in American history. It is one that needs to ----. Very important to understanding national history. Historically significant. Keep the history alive for future generations to understand. Revolutionary War. Very important. Might not have won Rev. war without it. Without this battle, the Revolutionary Wars outcome would probably ---- quite different. An important battle in the American revolution-no battle-no America. Defeat of ---- Calvary part of beginning of Yorktown. Invaluable. American Revolution history is primary importance. It ---- an important past. The cowpens battle helped to ---- so that we were no longer under the ---- control. Very good and informative. I love history and want to share it with my children. It brings a very important part of our history to life.  The combination of video, trail markers and staff made the experience AWESOME. Importance in the southern campaigns of the Revolutionary War-opened the way for Yorktown-British defeat. Its affect on the Revolutionary War and its impact. It was a great chance to teach my children history. Our freedom and independence may not exist without the event that happened here. Remind us of our history as a country. Shows an important event in war; being from NY this is a new part of the history to learn about. Turning point in the South. Turning point of Revolution. Guaranteed the liberty of the nation. History counts! Revolutionary war win. To remember the importance of the battles fought during the revolutionary war. Significant to Revolutionary War in the southern U.S. It is very beneficial to learning about how our independence was won. Revolutionary war site. Educate about the battle at Cowpence and it importance. Very educational, learned about important. To show the importance of one battle on the rest of American history. A turning point in the revolution. Very good. It is great to teach-all generations about the battle that took place were my 7 year old loved the Ranger walk and movie. Yes. Without Cowpens the South could have fallen to the British changing the face of colonial America. Change of direction in the revolutionary War.  Key battle to saving York town. The telling of major battle in the winning of the revolutionary war. One of the turning points in the revolutionary war. Cowpens NB further solidified.  The possibility of victory.  Probability of a Pedriot Victory.  It started at KIMO. The Civil War was very interesting. American revolution. It played a role in the shaping of our nation. History! Excellent, we all need to know more of our history. Our freedom to be a free country. It's part of our revolutionary history and good to know. Major battle site for revolutionary war. The pivotal victory for the Patriots. Learning more about the birth of our nation and the hardships of our dear warriors. Huge.  Barely understood by most people. It is an important part of our history. Let's people know about the fighting in the South. History. I am British and it really brought home to me how important Cowpens was. Important to all Americans and those interested in American history. It is a major and vital part of our national heritage. Maintaining the history of the area and of our nation. One of two back to back victories for the colonials, led to the failure of the British southern strategy for the war. Priceless history that needs more attention (Southern campaign) in schools and education circles. Very historical and important to understand American revolution. Freedom won in revolutionary war from Corupena to Yorktown. Great for education to sight seeing. It's an important part of US history. Opportunity to see American history. Saving historical information for future generations. The battle held national significance as proof of the strength of both the national army and the will of the people. It led to Yorktown/(I have BA in history ----). A turning point in the American Revolution. The part that this site played in the ---- of the American Revolution and an important part of the shifting that resulted in ----. If it wasn't for this battle we may not have won the war. It is helpful to have historic battlefield near by. Critical ---- in establishing our independence.  ---- ""The road to ---- courthouse"" ---- at ---- in the south. An important battle took place here. Historical turning point establishing our country.  Learning about the people of the time. Key battle in the War for Independence. Very, we are history buffs and the solitude and meaning of the Parks we have visited has been very inspirational. Ancestors fought here-very interesting to see where they ----. Preservation of American history so people can visit places seen in books. The battle was a turning point in the war! Great. To teach our children about history of our country. Revolutionary War history, SC history. Historical significance in regards to the revolution. It's ---- of how we ---- Revolutionary War-what it took to remove British ----. There is a great significance. Thrilled that you are preserving the integrity and significance of the battle. Great landmark to signify ---- of this historical area. Considering how it affected the ---- of the war this was very important. Highly significant. It's a place to learn about things that you won't learn in school unless you take college history class. To preserve our nation's history for the nearby children/family to have a place to see and experience this history. Significant battle in ---- American Independence. Sight of Revolutionary War Battle. Turn in the ----. Freedom from ----. Reminder of the sacrifice and quality of men (Ex: Morgan) lived out that ----. Turn of the Revolutionary War. Very important battle in U.S. history. Very important-I'm a history enthusiast. Yes. A major turn around for American military history. Revolutionary History. History. Beginning of the history of winning the Revolutionary War. Main battle won prior to Yorktown. Revolutionary War history. This park is one of the MOST important. Due to the history preserved here. Very important. We won an important battle! History. Significant victory in the south. Inform visitors about a little known portion and battle of the revolutionary war. Southern American Rev. battles receive less recognition, so I believe we should invest more in restoring those crucial battle fields. Keeping history alive. Key to telling our ---- stay from the beginning. Our heritage.  Passing down to other generations. Beginnings of America. It was the turning point toward victory for the newly formed United States of America. It shaped what is now Cowpers! Major/important Revolutionary War battle.  Needs to stay and improved. Turning point in history. Good understanding of personal history of movement of Holcom family. Keeping history alive. Very significant. Very critical for our history. So very significant to the history of our infant nation."
17,Hawaii Volcanoes NP,HAVO,"To experience and observe the earth in the most raw sense. Here is one of the few (only?) places in the U.S. where our national land mass is growing!  Cool stuff. Great significance! Phenomenal natural sight. Natural beauty. Where else do you see the earth forming with such easy access and info from park staff, scientists, and literature. Active volcano.  Hawaiian culture and history. One of the best of the national parks we've visited. Creation. The power of Mother Nature! Active volcanoes. Volcanic activity and preservation of that along with the native things around us. Volcanoes are hard to come by in the U.S.. Active creation of changing environment. Amazing piece of natural history for our family to see. Geographical history.  Preserved for future generations. Only part of USA growing on volcano! To appreciate the volcanoes. Volcano! As a teacher, I feel that our parks are so important to students and to their families. The original sight seeing.  More instructions about ---- and history. To make sure land is preserved. Lava tube. Ok. It's a live volcano. Hawaii formed by Volcanoes is interesting-how earth was formed. A national treasure. How many rangers does it take to screw in a light bulb? Learning about our culture and teaching how to respect da aina!  Shoot2 Because this is the only national park that is building the country. It's one of the new volcanoes, active I think? Close encounter with nature. To learn about active volcanoes in Hawaii. Access and education. This park represents how the Hawaiian island were created, the ---- plants and animals and cultural significance to this place. Highly significant and very educational ---- ---- inspiring. History of the Hawaiians.  Geologic history. Culture, origin. Great national park, awesome!  Great Ranger helps! Rangers were awesome! It's a beautiful natural landmark.  I've heard Kilava since I was a child in Canada. Showcasing an active volcano. It helps demonstrate the formation of land. It is a sacred cultural site and it needs to be protected and preserved. It is the only place in the world you can experience volcanic activity conveniently. This is how Hawaii continues to grow/exist amazing opportunity to view nature at is most pure/natural/powerful state. Park ranger staff-excellent service. Unique ----. International Tourism; culture ----. Teach us more about volcanoes. 0 Volcanoes! Finest example of volcanism in the world. To learn about geological volcanology. To explain and highlight this natural wonder. Only active volcano in the USA. It adds to the amazing diversity of the park system, and our country on the whole. To preserve a unique natural place. Volcanoes and lava. Connection forming between historical myth and modern science (Pele vs. Jannar). Very informative and educational. Very high. More of a geological significance. Maintaining natural status-like present. This is an active volcano that you wouldn't see anywhere else. History of the volcanic history. The culture and geography of Hawaii. It offers something no other national park does. The opportunity to see geological activity up close. Volcanoes. Cool lava, Hawaiian heritage. A great place to visit and preserve. Live volcano. Being one of the only volcanic parks, this park offers fantastic sights and is an important hub for scientific observations. Origin/natural experience. The volcano and the history of the people. Unique geological and biological features; including native wildlife. Volcano activity. The native plants and the history of everything here. Unique natural value. It is amazing.  Unique. Volcano. This park is an astonishing perspective on an aspect of the US not normally seen.  It reminds us all that we are one. Culture. Very important to get close to nature. Active volcano in the US and education about the volcanoes. Educational. This is a globally unique area.  ---- Volcanic activity. The ability to see an active volcano ---- the US is amazing. This park is a unique cultural and natural resource!  It is a treasure to be preserved and protected. Where else can you see such sites? History. Very The history of the island is in line with the volcanic activity so very significant. Preservation of beautiful wildlife habitat. Tropical.  Go Trump! Natural historical phenomena. Great. Conservation of natural wonders is very important and imperative to learning. The only NP with an active Volcano. Very important. High. History, cultural awareness, and knowledgeable about nature. History, geological importance, Hawaiian Culture. Historic Geographical and Ecological sight.  (Must have.) Nature is a blessing, to be preserved and enjoyed by all.  Teaches us about the past, present and future as well as ourselves is good. Aside from the Natural History, this site is an important cultural heritage site. Unique geology and cultural history.  Endemic plants and animals. Very unique natural phenomena with culture lessons attached. One of a kind, a National Treasure! Show natural history of Hawaii and lets public see important continuing work to understand volcanoes. One of a kind-must not lose it. Preserve this beautiful ecosystem. Preserve the learning experience. Learning about the different geography and changes of the Nation. Bring good understanding of the Island Volcanic activity. Geologic study, cultural history. Totally unique in U.S.! To show people the power of the earth and how it's strength should be both admired yet feared. Active Volcanoes, but volcano ----. Amazing to see an active Volcano up close. Educational, sustainability. Immense! Knowledge of resources and some activity. History. Importance of preservation. All natural parks are important to all Americans. Shows how many islands around the world were formed by God. Close proximity to active volcano. Shows the formation of Hawaii.  Eye-opening to visitors. The only active volcano in U.S...duhhh.... It is an important natural formation that we should preserve. Preserve Hawaiian culture and landscape. It's a freaking volcano!  That's significant. Wonderful!  Love that we have volcanoes in our country.  Love the cultural significance. It educates people about a very different geology and climate than the mainland. Nothing else like it in the U.S.. The land and Hawaiian culture. A teaching and learning facility. 1. Geological/volcanological significance.  2. Culture significance (native legends, etc.). Represents Hawaiian history. Very significant.  Hawaii is an important state, volcanoes globally significant. It gives information of the significance of the Hawaiian culture. It preserves Hawaiian culture. Hawaiian culture preservation. Educational sightseeing (teacher, IL). Range of ecosystems in small spaces. Fantastic educational experience.  Great scientific study. Fantastic place. Geological, diversity of plant life, and culture. Need toilet seat covers. Very unique experience. Growth! Very important! Volcano. Not known, from overseas. Beautifying Hawaii. The rarity of an active volcano, but managed access to be near the opening.  And trails to hike and bike. Most active volcano on earth. The observation of the volcano. Nature beautiful. Beautiful, historic volcano site holy to some people. Cultural values. A great learning experience. Hawaiian culture. Deep dive into unique geologic events. Very high. Visiting the volcano, and learning about how the islands were ----. Historical significance of the park. Presentation. Beautiful view, historical and geological value. The cultural information about the Hawaiian people, the active change of our ecosystem and lands. 0 Opportunity to see an active volcano. Lava flow. A good place to see a volcano. It serves as an important reminder that even the most modern society is still subject to the laws of nature. It is very significant.  History of volcano's fascinating. Incredibly significant! History and science of volcanoes. National treasure. Opportunity to view rare occurrences of nature. To ensure people that it's still active. First time. It is important to save and recognize the wonderful and unique components of our plant! Entertainment and education. It is pretty. History, education, volcano's. To show the importance of the Hawaii culture. Give us the ability to see what resources and nature close up.  We appreciate the history and geology education. Most unusual park in USA. Very high. Beauty, education, uniqueness, excellent service from rangers. To educate people and help them appreciate the experience. Geological, Native history the newest part of the USA!! Volcanoes. To experience and enjoy our nations beauty. Great lava flow. To learn how these islands were created.  To appreciate power of Mother Nature. It is an important treasure for the nature. It's a very unique opportunity to witness earth's geology in process. Our only opportunity to see unique geology, biology and culture. The history and beauty of the land. Top priority. Can't put into words, but the park is awesome and I'm grateful it's part of our nation's parks. It is a natural landmark. Geological, historical, cultural. The ability to observe volcanic activity and the regeneration after the lava flows. The active volcanoes. One of only a few places with volcanoes in the USA. Unique, special and sacred place. Cultural, volcanoes. Beauty. Huge. To view and educate on Hawaii volcano. Uniqueness of lava and rain forest. History of island and scientific facts about the volcanoes."
18,Bent's Old Fort NHS,BEOL,"American history! It teaches people about history in a fun and meaningful way.  Kids were especially engaged because of the rangers in period costume and the demonstrations and hands on things. Helps us understand the westward expansion of U.S.. Played key role in Western migration in mid 1800's. Intercultural exchange, ""Modern Walmart"". Opportunity to embrace the luxury and hardship of the journey west by our forefathers and mothers.  Tough people. Fur Trade and peaceful relations-too bad they didn't last. I believe this location and facility is extremely important to our early history.  Being an actual reconstruction is phenomenal and filled with items of the time not empty rooms. West Movement.  Other ones-except our Guide-good to excellent.  Need maintenance-is shabby construction. A great part of our Four Fathers and history of where we come from. An example of America's ability to assimilate Mexican and Native Indian Cultures through trade on the Santa Fe Trail. Historical Mexican border and trade route. Incredibly valuable.  Significant for learning about our Nation's history. Absolutely..  Learning about co. history is very important. Pioneers memory.  Capability of various communities (Native Americans, Mexican, Indian) to live together. The part it played in history critical for settling the west U.S. and Mexico relation. Amazing history, great staff, I'd come back for sure, it makes you feel like you're really there, epic. Frontier history. To show the beginnings of the Nation. This Country was established on the basis of its raw materials. Trading Post opened travel to North! Fabulous reconstruction-an unappreciated gem. SFT history, West expansion history. It displays the westward expansion (of white, mainly), but also shows appreciation of the Native Indian culture. The history of the ole west. Great for the kids. Citizens need to have available opportunities to learn about the nation's past.  More importantly they need to be made aware of the many opportunities and be strongly ---- to use them!  Oh for good history classes! History. Gateway to the frontier. Historical value of the west. Historical. History and education. History. I was unaware as to how important the fort was to trade in the south west. It is obviously, ----.  Very important. Loved it. Retain our experience of westward expansion. The way people were treated and the history of the country. How the fort was used and how the people would walk and meet at that time period. Illustrates U.S. history in the early 1800's and the connection with Mexico and the plains Indians.  Provides a good glimpse at Western, Frontier life. The past isn't past, the past haven't even happened yet. Loved being here!! History-and it is very well done. One of Colorado's hidden secrets. Very important-as it showed how pioneers lived, what they endured as pioneers!! It was the only ---- west of the ---- river. Plus my grand children are ""Bents"" cousins. How we protected people who were trading across the land. Very significant. Expansion of the West! Anything from history is worthwhile to teach and learn from. Mistakes in history (or valuable victories) help us in the present to not repeat history or to repeat history! It's an amazing piece of history ""come to life"" which really makes a difference ---- to see and hear everything hands-on! Preserving history. Everything! He ---- very good. Historic value. History. Very impressed! Thank you! Very significant. Knowledge of Bent Brothers and trading. The ---- and cultures and civilized is amazing. It is the west! Pivotal to western expansion and the SW becoming part of the U.S.. The effect it had historically on settling this nation. Appreciate captioning and audio description on video accessibility. Very important, our nation's boundary. Important time in Colorado history.  3 cultures getting along! A reminder of the life our ancestors lived. Our history of the U.S. west. This is the BEST, most informative park I have EVER visited. We visited other forts on our trip. This one was unique and how it was rebuilt. Being able to climb upstairs. My grandson had a blast. Loved all the guides. Love history of ---- major part of expansion into West. As a peaceful coming together of the trappers, traders, Indians and pioneers, I believe this was very significant. This Fort is an amazing recreation that breathes life into history. Illustrates history fur trade. Provided a place for initial trade on the continent. Understand our past and all its nuances. Opening of the West, exploitation of Native Americans.  Near extinction of Bison. Learning about history and our past. Expansion of the United States and interaction of different people to bring modern civilization to this part of the Country (History). This historical aspects of relations between different cultures (Mexican, Indian, etc.) and past commerce (Trapping/Hunt/Trade). It was an important trade spot along the Santa Fe Trail and along the border of the US/Mexico. Great preservation of Western history. Great to be reminded of the history of the USA. Terrific restoration!  I'm going to bring my students here! History, learning bout trade and way of living. The history of our past. This exhibit fulfills beautifully this most important period in Westward experience. The history of the fort, preservation. ---- from ---- this for trading post is very significant to those who traveled the Santa Fe trail and learned about ""Kent"" in school. Learning about early trade. Early 1800s history-trapping trade. History of life before the wild west. Representation of fur trade era. This park is significant as a replica of a fort along the Santa Fe trail.  It was essential for establishing overland communications and trade between Missouri and Santa  Fe. Lifelike to great detail-outstanding replicas of life in 1846. Important in 1830-1846 time frame regarding the ""move westward"" of U.S. population. Helps us understand way of life and hardships of our countrymen in those days.  Also, we see the importance of this outpost on the Santa Fe Trail. It links us with out past!  It tells the story of the West. Not all forts were based on a military presence in the west-the trade brought many tribes together and whites along the Santa Fe Trail. The fort now a major way point on the Santa Fe Trail, serving as a trading location and significant intercultural gathering place. History. It gives a good explanation of the trading activities and how they shaped the south west. The Santa Fe trail.  Important to westward expansion. Historical-non-military fort/boundary between nations. Epitome of western expansion. Marks a portion of the way west. Wonderful and acceptable history lesson for this region of the country and western ---- in general. Absolute critical. Frontier of America.  This is an excellent example of what---- ---- great.  ---- ---- history for the trail. History is key to controlling future. Santa Fe trail history.  This is a major park site-historically. Videos show how this area was important to the US. A time of cooperation among many people. Educational-helps us understand family history.  Our family passed through here on their way to Rye, CO. High. Pioneer and Indian (native) relations. We learn where we came from to guide where we are going. Created a trading post for Indians, trapping trading.  Holy for settlers as they started new life. Great experience learning about 1846. History.  Shows everyone getting along peacefully. Represents living in the plains ----. Shows how life was. This represents our history and heritage great park. Historical significance/important educationally. Home to some shelter to others but mostly a trading post where all types of goods and services were found. As restored it gives an historically accurate experience of 19th cent. western life. Top level! This fort represents an important part of the history of the USA and it needs to be here to help us remember these events. Major part on the Santa Fe Trail. Authentic experience of a historical site. Felt like we stepped back into the past! It was very important to westward expansion, dealing with Native American tribes and in the Mexican-American war.  It is an icon of the West. Quite significant.  It helps to make the past real. To preserve a small portion of our past history for future generations.  National parks expose us to the past. History. The use of the fort and the people that used it.  Nice film too. National expansion and attempt at peaceful relations."
19,Canyonlands NP,CANY,"Labyrinth of hidden rock canyons and amazing formations untouched by human developments brings hope! Natural wonder. America's best idea. Magnificent! Just trying to keep this world the way it was meant to be! I'm thank for that our National Parks were started and are protected. Open space for all. Keeping the land preserved for us to enjoy and study. The large vastness of the American landscape.  Huge Canyon. Natural Canyon areas. This Park is an area unlike any other in the U.S.  An awesome sight! 0 Preservation and access to unique natural assets. Canyons are beautiful nature.  So much things to do and to see. Geologic scenery. Our Country is so large and diversified and should be shared with other Countries. Irreplaceable landscapes and wildlife. Retain natural beauty. Very important!  Saving these special areas is a valuable resource for the World, not just the U.S. Education and appreciation of nature. Presenting our Nation's precious history and nature. An opportunity to see geological and history of the area. Preserving our National treasures. Preservation of natural history. Natural landscape preserved for all. Maintaining and preserving natural wonders. Very significant. Because it is preserved for the right reasons. Geological history.  Landscape. Incredible beauty! Canyons! Preservation of natural resource.  Educational benefit to generations. Very important, all our Parks are! Think NP are great way to preserve our history. Unique natural rock formations. The beauty. Outstanding geological and archeological value. Show off the best of ---- tax dollars at ---- - excellent. Spectacularly unique. Geology discussion. Allows people to see the wonders of Park Canyons. Amazing rock formations. As scenic as Grand Canyon. Inspiring the human spirit! Preserving wilderness around Colorado River. The magnificence-views. Night sky's.  History. Preservation of scenic beauty. Remind people about the beauty of mother nature. Wind and water. Its natural beauty. Maintaining the natural stage of the Canyons. The Canyons are some thing not seen around the ----. Unique geology and natural setting. Preservation of nature, beauty, heritage and native culture before big corporations destroy it all. It's physical beauty. It's a very unique area. Preservation of wild life and beauty. Sharing it with everyone while preserving a significant landmark tough ---- to do! Untamed river canyons. The beautiful of natural. I like that you don't offer food, this tends to keep trash from reaching the trails-especially water bottles. Natural beauty unique to this nation, relaxing getaway, new experience, this is my first trip to the national parks. The canyon seems very impressive in the plateau, very unique. The views, the native, wonderful it's very clean. Unique beauty/landscape.  Something different. 1. Nature/environmental protection and conservation.  2. Ability of the public and access and connect with nature. National treasure. Shows off how quiet the US is especially to foreigners. Very significant.  The park should be greatly expanded.  This park is on par with the Grand Canyon. It is very important to protect this beautiful treasure. Canyon preservation. Open to the public to enjoy. Yes very much so. Interesting geology.  Unique. Amazing place.  Tax dollars well spent. Growing and historical significance. A very good and thorough explanation of how part of this Nation was formed excellent learning for old and youth. Canyonlands Park has UNIQUE geological formations flora and fauna, and a unique history with humans.  It also, being a wild place, helps to remind us of our ancestors, our fellow species and companions in the world.  It helps keep humans from hubris. Scenic beauty, unique desert ecosystems, recreation opportunities. It makes an other worldly landscape accessible whether you just want to sightsee or want some challenging hikes or backpacking. Makes a remote and beautiful land accessible to everyone. Protect the beautiful landscape. The beauty and uniqueness of this ecosystem. Wildness.  Geologic uniqueness.  Cultural significance.  Global importance. Beautiful nature well preserved. Beauty, unique landscape. Very important. Belongs to the people. Get people to see our Country. Beauty. Excellent natural beauty! Historical geological. Maintaining natural wonders with minimal commercialism and human foot print. Views unlike any other. Education and preservation. For my grand kids to enjoy. Preservation of natural beauty! Saving nature is important in a fast growing world. Spectacular place-save it for posterity. Appreciation of natural beauty of America. History, geological history it displays.  The uniqueness. Love the Canyons. Only one to embrace Mountain bikes!  Thank you! It is important to preserve God's handiwork so all can see and praise him! Wicked cool. Preservation. Historical-showing nature's weathering over time.  Interesting to read about the mining and transition to NP. It's one of the most beautiful places we've ever been and should be protected. The deep canyons, different than the Grand Canyon. Appreciation of geology. V. High.  Great facilities (visitor centers). Scenery. Great scenery. Canyons. Valuable resource. Diversity and beauty of landscape. Protection of a unique eco system of slick rock and sandstone rock formations.  Protections of the confluence of Green and CO rivers. Nature preservation for future generation. I'm not from U.S., so I do not know the national significance, but can say it is an amazing and beautiful park (both Needles and Island in the Sky). Terrain preservation, beauty. This type of landscape is not just unique to this ranch, but to the weird!  Desert type landscape, ---- canyons, majestic sand formations and the ---- in the back ground.  (Also, great trails for ---- ---- ----). The unique landscape. To make money. Fantastic example of plateau geography maintains new primitive condition.  Thanks for no concessions.  Please expand boundaries of park. Geologic history and beauty native people arch. It shows the beauty of God's creation. 0 Protect this great natural area nor private interest like business. Save the park, where it is. Preserving and teaching about the beauty of our land. Appreciate the natural beauty of this country. History, open space. I believe this park along with the others are significant because they preserve beautiful signs in our history. Monument-no energy ---- at all to fracking. The landscape and antibiological sites. Preservation of natural resources. My favorite N.P. Presentation/protection of the environment. Great beauty and solitude-large perspective, great educational value on the history of the earth/geology. Reintroduce people to the beauty in their backyard.  Makes you think about preservation and over-consumption. Unique landscape and history. Geology, history. Unique natural beauty. Allows all to see wonderful part of Country.  NO MORE WILDERNESS AREAS! Geologic history and history of setting of the West unique natural flora and fauna. It's significant because it's a great tourist attraction and national preserve. Natural beauty-UNSPOILED. Historical geological forms. Beauty that can't be seen any where else and it stays protected. Unique opportunity to study geology; understanding the effects of climate change through geologic time its stark beauty!  Understanding desert ----. Absolutely significant-beauty to be respected, learned and seen. To provide an opportunity for the people of our Country and the many visitors from other countries to experience the beauty of this Nation. Piece of ----. Yeah. The preservation of wild and scenic lands for future enjoyment. View. It is beautiful. The nature and landscape is fantastic. Geological history. Informs how the surface of this country evolved very significant. Scenic beauty and wilderness. National significance? None clearly very beautiful and nice to have an untouched area to visit. The ---- view. To protect environment and outstanding landscape. Views seen no where else on earth. National treasure. Priceless history scene great that things were no ---- Overview of region, sandstone layers, geology. Brings other country's visitors to appreciate the U.S. Good view of past agriculture/---- history for this region. Preservation of land fist recognized many years ago by Powell. Landscape. Knowledge of natures beauty. Preserve history, encourages appreciation of open spaces, grand views and geological beauty. In my opinion it optimizes the ---- ""song"" I hear ---- songs, ---- rights and wonderful array of ---- and landscape. More ---- with species. Extinction. Who knows what will come in a next billion years. Open space/preservation of land and resources we must keep ALL PUBLIC LANDS open to everyone. No ----. The beauty of it. Canyons as awesome as Grand Canyon, but without crowds! Convenience of 2 major rivers in US, Land used by Native Americas, then ranchers, mining. Save the space for future generations. Grandure (sp?). Natural beauty (thank God). Nature is always significant. Nature and freedom, nature preservation. Preserve nature, for future generations. There are multiple levels of canyons.  Enormous canyons created after millions of years of earth changing. Unique geologic features that are both preserve in their natural state and accessible to the public.  Our parks are our national treasures! Amazing rock formations and remote western scenery and escape."
20,Dayton Aviation Heritage NHP,DAAV,"Very interesting ---- story lesson on an important aspect of American history. Great to have it here.  Really enjoyed the park, the facilities, exhibits, and Very helpful and friendly staff. It's perspective to the progress of aviation (especially significant after a visit to the USAF Aviation Museum in Dayton). Important time in American history and inventions. Important to remember how innovation changes our lives. Wright brothers and aviation. Explained history relevant locally and nationally-and internationally. Learn more about Paul Lawrence Dunbar and the Wright brothers. Invention, creative culture. Loved the working experiments and the ranger's explanation of the ----.  First in flight or other first, plus the Duber ---- because of school together as boys. Shows the history of flight. The beginnings of aviation. The preservation and sharing of history. History of aviation. Beginning of aviation. First flight. To learn about the nation. Wright brothers' sites were very historic. Commemorates a historic event in American innovative history. Extremely informative and interesting. Showing the success of Wright Bro's.-inspiring others to dream and preserve in their dreams. Very good exhibits. Great historic value. To lear about Wright Bro's. and P. Laurence Dunbar. Birth of aviation. Preserving ---- and ----. America's role in aviation. History of aviation. Learning about the great mind ---- idea and the Wright brothers. This park exhibits our national spirit of innovation. History of flight and how they got started. History of flight and national heritage. Our history, struggles. This is a major milestone not just in our nation but in global aviation! Learning history of Wright brothers and Dayton. The significance of this park is that people would love to learn about the Wright brothers. Being able to walk around the flying field gives on an unprecedented opportunity to be immersed in history. Being able to be at the original location of the Wrights thinking. Commemorates the greatest to chronological contribution of the US to ----! Aviation. Flight is essential to our economy and safety today.  It all began here with the Wright brothers. The Wright brothers were one of America's greatest inventors and their additions to aeronautics obviously irreplaceable! Education. Where flight began. The story of the Wrights is of immense importance to our history and the history of the world. Yes the story of flight.  Visited all site ---- with the Wright brothers.  Overall the first ----.  Very good and informative. Very significant, as the aviation has had such a huge impact on modern life.  Also very glad to see Paul ---- re examined. Aviation, flight transportation. History of flight still a big part of our lives. Preserve history of Wright Bro's. Aviation history. Origins of flight. The Wright Brothers changed the world, and the ---- to youthful guides Dunbar, all 3 are important national figures. Wow!  We learned so much!  I came to appreciate the perseverance of both the Wright brothers and P. L. Dunbar and their importance to the nation. History of early Aviation. Understand the history and ignorance of First Flight and engineering contributions. Great historical info. Where ---- ----! History of First Flight. Origin of ---- flight. Great history. Aviation history. ---- History of flight. Beginning and progress of aviation. Aviation. History of flight and early 20th century. Nice exhibit on ---- too. The Wright brothers and Mr. Dunbars contribution to aviation and literature. Pioneers, innovators, and determined Americans. To educate us all about the Wright bros efforts and tride to fly and PLD amazing ---- in spite of his race. Tremendous! Great history and science. Very nice. Wright brother central! Wright brother first in flight. I love exposing my children and visitors to this history. History of Aviation and preservation of historical homes. The history of ---- ---- here. Wright Brothers and Mr. Dungar are very important parts of our Nation's heritage connected to us here. Learning the Wright Brothers. Proud of the heritage. Very informative. Beginning of flight and it's achievement. To learn about the history of the Wright brothers is invaluable.  Bonus-learning about Boe Dunbar! Ingenuity for building and inventions, craftsmanship and literary skill all put America's a leader in design and production in aviation. The Wright brothers are a national treasure because they show the value of persistence and ingenuity. The history/background for the development of Aviation.  Also learned about Paul Dunbar. All good.  This is where flight started and unsung Hero Paul Dunbar. Historical. The birth of flight. Available for all people-no cost-donation arrangement. Highlights work of many famous Americans and includes exhibits up to current events. Honoring the American Brothers who flew FIRST and learned how. History of Air Flight. The park gives a wonderful history of early aviation and individuals involved. First flight/beginnings of flight poetry. Coupled with the other aviation sites in the area it tells a great story about the invention if powered controlled flight. The wright brothers invented powered flight.  Pretty dammed important. Important historical site. Birth of flight. American innovation and industry late 19th/early 20th century-African American cultural history. The history of the Wright Brothers. Development of aviation. It was one of the beginning endeavors of the Wright Brothers which lead to the invention of flight. Where powered flight and control developed. Great history. Development of flight and airplanes/aviation. Aviation history. The history of aviation in the area and its impact on the science of aerospace. Recognition of the significant impact the Wright brothers had on global aviation. Wright Bros., early aviation history. Educational. History, culture. America was first in real flight (not balloons or zephyr) and the museum explains this. It is good to know our past heritage and where we have come from in history. History of flight. Yes. It is a historic significance. Important-home of aviation. Wright brothers memorial! Advancement of flight. Wish the house and shop would be returned from Dearborn. The national significance lies in its location at the site of first controlled flight by two American men.  That innovation shaped not only national history, but also world history. Preserves the history of the invention of first (in the world) controlled powered aircraft, which occurred in Dayton, OH, USA. Contributions by Wright bro's. to aviation. Yes definitely. The history of the Wright Dunbar interpretive.  ---- is something everyone should know or see.  So happy two Ohio boys developed the airplane. Learning about the impact the Wright bros. had on aviation. Birth of aviation. Our history. Very educational. This park captures a time, a place, and a very important and specific story-it does all three things superbly.  The Wright brothers are among our most notable national heroes and they deserve a park like this. Highlights the important of the scientific method in discovery. A help to all.  Thank you. Highlights three men who accomplishments contributed greatly to the advancement of this nation. It shows aviation history and science.  Also Paul Lawrence Dunbar. Creation of aircraft flight. Paul Laurence Dunbar is the father of AF-Am literature in the modern era.  Wright Brothers are the father of aviation. History of flight."
21,Gates of the Arctic NP & Pres,GAAR,"The beauty of the mountains. Thank you. Promoting access the Northern most and most unique part of the country.  Glad there is still a place this wild. To help us remember and teach us to appreciate. Oil. To preserve awesomeness. Arctic circle. It's information is great for me as a visitor from another country. We wouldn't be the United States without it. Conservation wildlife. Aboriginal wilderness. It's a must see to understand and appreciate.  And the amount of travelers is amazing. It presents Alaska's many fine opportunities for tourists who don't presently know much about Alaska. Remote, ---- beauty. The area being protected and preserved for future generations. This park is a way for people especially in the lower 48 to discover the beauty of nature here. Remoteness and enjoying the wilderness. Informative on Northern Alaska. This park represents the wildness and remoteness of America's arctic. Represents remote appeal of the nation's northwest. Education about a landscape for are exposed took experience.  Also, beautiful. It's pristine!  Impossible to find this much untouched land elsewhere. Preserving wild beauty. To preserve the beauty of this nation and the health of it's environment. The stunning views of the mountain, a natural preserve for the wildlife. Extreme wilderness and adventure. Untouched wilderness. Inaccessible wilderness unexploited! Artic access. This type of wilderness needs to protected future generations. ANWR aint a park but it is undoubtedly the most special place on earth. To show how life in the arctic environment survives the harsh conditions and to educate the public about the arctic. Far north, beauty. I freaking love the ANWR. Preservation of a spectacular place. To preserve the wilderness so present and future generations can enjoy it. Acquaints one with the history and flora and fauna of the region. Great info on the environmental and cultural significance of the ----. People learn how it was in the past. People learn we have to take care of this planet for future mankind. It is a truly wild place, which is so rare.  Beauty-mountains, caribou, wildlife, water.  An amazing place for solitude. The park protects one of the most outstanding wilderness areas-much of it still intact-in the world. Such expanses of wilderness rare in lower 48. It is a unique ecosystem seen nowhere else in the U.S.. It is the last pristine wilderness.  It is perfect.  Please keep it this way. Renewal of our spirit. Freedom, letting nature alone. At some point, these areas will be all that remains for users to enjoy. One of the ----, amazing! Wide open spaces, incredible landscape, wildlife river. Preserving our natural resources. It's unique, remote and wonderful wilderness. Protects a large chunk of Arctic habitat. It is undeveloped wilderness in the aortic. Preserve of ecosystems of past.  Demonstrates a region with less human impact.  Such places are rare and important. Dalton Highway. To keep fragile and important ecosystems intact and thriving. Preservation of TRUE wilderness! True Wilderness is very rare-this Park has it! Mountains and wildlife. It's pretty bad-**** Preservation of such an area. It is the Last Great Wilderness. Maintain local culture. A way for Americans to understand and appreciate Arctic ecology and why that matters every where in the U.S. Freedom. Large area of wilderness. Maintain Local Culture. To educate. The need to keep wilderness areas for the next generation. Reminder that we have inhabited a great wilderness to be preserved. The arctic inter agency historic center provides an abundance of interpretative natural specific to this unique environment-to know is to appreciate. True wilderness. Preservation of wilderness as close as possible to how it was before industrialization came to North America.  A place to recharge one's ----, to slow down one's mind. True wilderness to be experienced! Northern most park in artic to visit. Essential for understanding the unique ---- of the arctic environment. Expose visitors to arctic wilderness. Large open space for recreation that is actually accessible to general public of average means. It is the last true wilderness. Wilderness, space, culture. History of it. It's the last of untouched beauty. Getting people excited about Alaska! Great customer service. Very friendly. The enormity and granduer or awesome and a true symbol of this last Amer. Frontier. The wilderness and remote location is special-keep it that way!"
22,Arkansas Post NMem,ARPO,"Our history as Americans is who we are and to be protected. Historical value since 1600's just fantastic-this is America. Chickasaw Indians import off Mississippi, Ark River, Louisiana. Consist of sites, events, American Civil War, French expeditions, location on river European expeditions for importing. Civil War Battle Site.  ---- Indian settlement ---- is near.  First European settlement West of the Mississippi.  Site of only Revolutionary War Battle (Colbert's Raid) West of Mississippi although the War had actually ended.  First Newspaper, AR ----. A mini walk through American history-I was very surprised.  Plus this place is beautiful. Very significant multifaceted ---- the ---- that created and formed nation.  Should be better known. More important than I thought.  Gives perspective to Vicksburg. Our history-so ---- or little tours ---- house! Great place to visit and learn.  Wonderful movie, lots of history will be back again. Early history. History and how nation was formed and battled. This park tells a story not known to most Americans.  Along with the beautiful setting, it is a hidden gem of the park service. 0 First European settlement in lower Mississippi Valley. Great historical site. It seems the history of Arkansas in ---- the nation. It's where Arkansas history began and should be a ""must see"" for us living here. Just showing the different cultures that have been brought into the country via the territory. Very significant. We have really enjoyed and have learned so much.  Its a wonderful park. History. Record Civil War battlefield and French/Spanish occupation of site. 1st European settlement in the lower Mississippi River valley. An excellent example early American/Arkansas settlement and development. C.V. history. Extremely significant. First settlement by ---- west of Miss. river Civil War battle. First settlement, Civil War items and natural beauty astounded us. For the state of Arkansas it is a ---- part of its history. History. It was the first European established post in this area. It's important because it helps people of all ages learn about the history of the U.S. Keep history alive.  DO NOT ERASE HISTORY. Learn Arkansas history. Maintains the value of the rich history that Arkansas post has, not just locally but nationally. Teaching about ---- post ----.  Teaching children about wildlife. That this park was established as the first European establishment. The first settlement in lower Mississippi!  2 battles! The trading post and all the other ""did you know"" all around the property. To share what took place here.  Very interesting. Valuable ---- ----. Wonderful ranger, great movie, teaches the significance of various peoples learning to live together.  We must never let our history go!"
23,Fort Larned NHS,FOLS,"It is a stop on the Santa Fe Trail.  It shows the hardships endured by the soldiers and the types of facilities they had. America was ---- ----. Trail history.  Thank you.  ---- ---- Guardian of the ---- nations commerce. Protection of western settlements and the Santa Fe trail. Protecting ----. This is part of the ""make-up"" of our country. Essential-historic and natural preservation extremely important Indian and military history. History American West. Santa Fe trail.  Military history ---- Indians. Trail-Indian military history. Santa Fe trail. Good history of military/trail/Indians. American Indian and military history. History of the west.  American Indian history. Indian wars a development in progressive west. People went west trade went back and forth.  How they did that is important. Because of the Santa Fe trail! History-remembering our past. Important part of history.  Indian ---- military. Preservation of history.  Military-trail to America West. Shows how our country was formed and people lived in a time far ---- than present-lives of those who protected our way. Very significant to show our history whether good or bad. Westward trade history. Wonderful, and knowledgeable, friendly. Also, female less than 18.  We both loved this park and think it is important to keep.  The history needs to be passed to future generations. Better understanding of our history. Excellent display.  Excellent information.  Great ----. Garden of Santa Fe trail. Helps one learn about history of the role of the Army Fort for economic trade ---- securely along the Santa Fe trail in the 1800's. It is a unique perspective into an under-represented past of our national history. Kansas history.  Military history. Military ----. Mom, dad, and daughter very impressed with park and history of ---- Indians.  Santa Fe trail. Preservation of Indian wars and Santa Fe trail history. Preservation of trail on American West history. Protection and settlement, and trail history. Santa Fe trail.  Indian and military-American west. Service men lived and carried out as a community.  Good demonstration in the blacksmith and knowledge and the put ----. Very interesting-very important historical information of trail. Best example of fort along the Santa Fe Trail. History of our western expansion and roads of our military.  Thank you. Yes very much so it was interesting to think all that and so many men were in the middle of no man's land Most intact Fort on the Santa Fe trail we visited.  Great history. A well preserved depiction of frontier military life.  As a boy I would have loved to visit, it stirs the imagination. Westward expansion of the U.S. and Santa Fe Trail. A part of our nations history and is well preserved.  Enjoyed seeing all that was displayed. U.S. presence in the West after Civil War.  Daily life of individuals from that era.  Seeing history helps to make it a real thing. Westward expansion. Historical-very interesting and informative.  We learned a lot about how the Fort operated and life at that time. Fort personnel serviced the Santa Fe Trail and mail routes-preservation of buildings, furniture, uniforms and education of this history. Significance: role of the Gov't on frontier and challenges of hostilities among Native people and settlers. Very important. Gives insight into the history of our nation through expansion and protection of the Santa Fe Trail.  Helps people realize how America came to who we are now. To show military life in the west during this specific time period. History of Santa Fe trail. Santa Fe Trail-beautifully preserved fort. It is an important sight to see to understand the Indian wars and the soldiers experience living of an isolated post to protect the Santa Fe Trail. History of establishing the West.  The contribution that was made by soldiers and settlers help shape this country. Very important that people know about the hardships and sacrifices our ancestors made to allow early settlers to live in peace. To preserve our heritage. Shows what life was like and the importance of frontier forts mid-19th century. A major commercial center on the Santa Fe trail is worth saving.  The facilities were more interesting than most forts and interpretation good. Guardian of the Sante Fe trail. To protect the mail and those traveling the Sante Fe trail. Ft. Larned teaches about the Santa Fe Trail. It also preserves the history of the US Army. Garden of the Sante Fe Trail. It's history in protecting the Sante Fe Trail. It was built to protect the Sante Fe Trail and those that used it. Fine example of frontier Fort along Santa Fe Trail, helps explain conflict between Indians. Early Calvary. Really enjoyed walking and seeing this historical parks.  So very well presented.  Will come back and bring friends. To highlight life in the late 1800s.  The fort has been maintained so well and has a great value to teach people. The role of this fort in westward expansion and determining U.S. boundaries is clear. Shows the geologic history of the area. To keep history alive. As a history/learning experience.  Very interesting about our forefathers went through. Enjoyed the history of the fort, the lifestyle, the jobs that must be performed and thus the demonstrations on site."
24,Theodore Roosevelt Inaugural NHS,THRI,"A way to understand the important issues of the day.  Visual depiction of succession process. Inauguration of a President. Great to learn about Teddy Roosevelt. Historic event; important influences. Historical, political, ----. Keeping the Memory alive-maintaining contact with the past. To educate public of Theodore Roosevelt. I loved the presentation. The site where Theodore Roosevelt was sworn in as the 26th President of the U.S. after the assassination of President Wm McKinley in Buffalo New York in 1901. One of 4 inaugural site-and great example of great-arch. Beginning of the important Presidency of Theodore Roosevelt. Slice of America. It represents the start of a very significant presidency and a new century. Presidential history. It preserves an important time in American history. It in essence functions as a presidential library. Historical education. Presidential history is vital to understanding who we are and where we go as a nation. Historical landmark. Discusses a great president-one who was tackling the same problems as our current president. Historical figure in our nation and his contributions are highlighted. Importance of learning (continuously) about our history and government. Theodore Roosevelt sworn in as president. To present the beginnings of the Theodore Roosevelt presidency and president the ideals and ideas that he had for his significant officer. I never knew about this moment in the back of our nation.  The house and the excellent guide brought it all to life for me.  I feel enriched. The significance to our region. Yes, historical significance to presidential history. Preserving the home of where a tragedy at the Pan-Am Expo turned into the beginning of a great presidency.  Preserving history is always important. This park is a great learning experience related to the assassination of President McKinley and inauguration of President Roosevelt. Inauguration of president under emergency situation after assassination of McKinkley. Where Theodore Roosevelt was inaugurated as president after McKinley was assassinated. History-we need to be reminded. Pays tribute to one of the US presidents. TR was a great ---- ANYTHING about T.R. is very significant. Historical education. It's a snapshot of history of buffalo that would be lost without this museum. Remembering our nation during this period and educating about TR. Amazing review of historical perspective from 1900's. Importance of an inauguration speaks for itself. Learning the history of Theodore Roosevelt. Presidential history-an a forward thinking president. Presidential history. To learn more about Teddy Roosevelt. TR's inauguration-his impact on country and its issues. Added to my understanding about assassination of ---- and inauguration of T.R. and issues of era. President Roosevelt was sworn in here. Presidential history. Wonderful exhibit on one of our most important presidents! Teddy Roosevelt swearing in. It was one of our four Presidents to take the oath of office outside of the Capital. Historical preservation. History of the time of Theodore Roosevelt became the president. Inauguration site of very influential presidents. Great historical site. Great historical significance.  Wonderful tour. Swearing in of President Roosevelt was here-after a national tragedy. Absolutely. It is important to US history for the ---- of power peacefully from president to president no matter the circumstances. Inauguration of T. Roosevelt. Actual historical site-not a replica. Presidential history. Putting buffalo on the map of the United States history. The place where a President was inaugurated. One of the few ---- inauguration sites. Teddy Roosevelt was one of the most important presidents. Historical. Presidential inauguration. Excellent. Understanding of the reason who ---- President important to understand his influence. Peaceful transition of power after calamity location where one of the most transformation Presidents began his administration. It allowed guests to better understand and how and where President Roosevelt took office. It is significant because it teaches about TR and cultural issues that still plague us today. The continuation of the presidency-wonderful info about TR. Great program/tour and interactive displays. History of time period and life of Teddy Roosevelt. Very historical for future generations to know about our early years of the 20th century. Yes important for learning our history. 0 A president inauguration, so important! Always good to learn history. History teaches things we can use in the present. American history needs to be preserved and ""alive"" for all generations. It was a memorable, important period in our country's history! Site of ---- swearing in. Tour of the 20th Century history and relatedness to today. To understand the ---- of T. Roosevelt to providing following president wm.  Mckinley's ---- in 1901. Preserving history. To tell story of President McKinley's assassination. I think it is very important, very significant. It's important to preserve the path of all presidency. Extremely significant since TR was such an instrument of change for our nation in the early 20th century. Beginning of an important presidency. Site of change of power which occurred on a human ----. History of president T. Roosevelt. Excellent-friendly guides were very proud to explain ""part"" this area played in history, geography, etc. VERY significant! Insight on a pivotal tragic turning point in our history. Site is historic to our history as place of inauguration that is different than the norm. One historic moment worth preserving. An unappreciated and consequential moment in U.S. history is preserved here. Theodore Roosevelt was inaugurated here. The ability to travel back in time with the original and restored artifacts made this trip unique. We learned about our nation's history. To keep America history alive in the USA and world. This historic site preserved valuable artifacts of American history.  This tour was so well preserved it was a walk through history as it unfolded. Historical in nature to our country and culture. US history. This site captures an important part of US history and serves as an introduction to one of it's most important presidents. Very significant TR had a huge impact on the US capturing his inauguration is important. Place where TR sign the inaugural. Good to know the starting points of some historical figures. TR inaugural. TR's inaugural to presidency. NHS. It explains an important transition in our country's leadership. Yes definitely. This is an important moment in Buffalo's history and interest point in the history of the nation's ----. It highlights the importance of progress in both scientific innovation and political awareness. It is very significant in the history of the executive branch of our government. It links the personal with historical events. Inaugural of a president! Maintain the history of the event. Teddy Roosevelt was a very significant president. Theodore Roosevelt very influential president.  His legacy critical to preserve. Very interesting to learn about the transition of the presidency from McKinley to Roosevelt. Yes. Education. Educating about a historically important event - that created context for presidential transition. History. Importance of our presidential history. Historical President and Pan Am history. Inauguration of T Roosevelt, Pan American exposition. T R's oath taking. To teach everyone what a wonderful president Teddy Roosevelt was. Just what it's meant to be, the house ---- was sworn in as Pres. TR history, buffalo. The idea that we can keep alive an important monument like this is wonderful in learning history! Preservation and conveyance of history. History. Marks the site where Theodore Roosevelt started his Presidency. Very significant and an excellent view of Life at the turn of the 20th Century. History of presidents. Theodore Roosevelt was one of our most consequential presidents. Seeing where his presidency began was very illuminating. This was great! Most definitely. Importance to our country and the office of president. An important milestone in U.S. history marking the inauguration of a very important and great president who helped establish U.S. as  world leader. Historical topics to the public. Learning about the nations history. Presidential history. Very important historical site. Very important site in US history, glad it was saved.  Also, interesting to learn what happened here and how. Every piece of our history is invaluable and reminds us of our foundation. History and perspective of country without an ---- upon and learned past can not flourish. Where Roosevelt was sworn in office. Not matter where the inauguration takes place! Particularly of interest in an election year! Very interesting and an important historical era. Some presidents you want to forget.  T.R. you want to share with all you  meet! Any info on one of our presidents is of great national significance. Theodore Roosevelt created the national parks and have ---- of where he was sworn was President. Important I know about ---- succession of chief ----. For me, Brazilian, it's so important to know more about USA. It is where one of our greatest presidents was inaugurated. Very important to keep places of historic value. If you forget the past you are doomed to repeat it. So applicable to ----, seeing some problems as had at beginning of 20th century. Very nice narrative for the site Bill ---- was the bomb!! I was pleasantly surprised.  Glad we came today. This is a significant part of history due to the impact that Theodore Roosevelt had on our Nation. Presidential History.  Really enjoyed the Tour! Educate the Presidential succession. Provides educational opportunities re:  Presidency added interest as connected to Buffalo History. Important part of our history. Preserve history, and recognize its relevance in issues today. Social and political history of the period. Very interesting and I am so happy this home is preserved for all to enjoy. Inter ---- with the ----. To preserve the historic house-site of Theo. Roosevelt---- and issue of the time of today. It is an inaugural site and it is amazing to see how everything was preserved. This national park has a lot of meaning to it. To the USA citizens, it is important for this to be here for historical reasons. A very important part of US history that isn't known. Historical-picture of turn of century society-insight to TR's influence. Significance of TR inauguration. TR inauguration-seeing history. Theodore Roosevelt's legacy. It's a park for the man who created the national parks. Transition of power. Our presidential history. A wonderful walk through history-tour guide was excellent! Teaches history of significant historical event. Very informative and well done. Highly significant. Inaugural site of TR 26th president. Presidential significance and history of United States. It is very significant to presidential history. History of this area and a great presidency-two of them!  Also, the history of the Pan-Am Exhibition. Historical where TR was inaugurated after McKinley was assassinated. Learning about a president who has extremely important legacy; helping to reflect on contemporary politics-issues facing US politicians. Absolutely. Inauguration not held in D.C.. Incredibly significant-a major piece of US history as well as Buffalo as in its prime. The inauguration of President Roosevelt. Important to learn the history of our nation! The history of the region."
25,Kennesaw Mountain NBP,KEMO,"Battlefield. Proximity to Atlanta to beginning of Gen. Sherman's civil war goal. History of our country was brought to ---- and better understood. Keeping a part of our great nation close to us.  Proud to have this park in my back yard. To remember our history. To inform public about significance of ----(s) fought in area. To commemorate the 1864 Battle of Kennesaw Mtn and the Atlanta campaign of the Civil War. ---- ----, ----. Civil war history. Preserving our history! Preserving the past and to learn where we as a nation come from. History of the Civil War.  Make people aware of the ---- people make for the country. Very high as regards our need to reflect on war. It represents the important era in U.S. history not to be forgotten. The Civil War wounds, though devastatingly horrible, must serve as a certainty that freedom must be preserved by EACH American. Inform public on significance of battles during the Civil War in this area. Civil War history. Preserves Civil War history! When we walked the trail, we could watch a lots of birds there.  It was really nice. GREAT STAFF. History, public space for individuals and families to enjoy the outdoors. History. Battle Field. Civil War. Reminds us that Confederates were idiots. The historical value is the National significance. To remind people of the history of our Nation. Great Park and also great history! To protect our Southern history and protect green space. Battle of Kennesaw Mtn. HISTORY. This Park keeps preserve Civil War history. Information on the cost of civil war. Patriotic history. It's a tribute to what those who came before us sacrificed and fought for what they believe. To show our children that ---- can come to all of us and to respect what our ancestors stood for. History. Civil war. History of Battle of Atlanta and ---- Civil War. Very significant.  Great experience. Civil war history. Civil war. 1864 Battle of Keenness Mtn. History of the Civil War. It's beautiful and the nature is amazing! Battle of Kennasan Mtn. Civil war history. Civil war. Great history. History teaches us all!! Honor our fallen ---- ---- ----. The national significance is the Civil War. Having a place to exercise and experience the beauty of God's creation in the midst of the city. Civil War. Important reminder of history. History. I don't have an educated answer. Civil War. Civil War history. Memory of the soldiers who fought for us. Civil War history; ----  part from top. Historical preservation. Historical information. Never forget where we came from as a Country. Civil War history. A chance to enjoy God's creation. History and nature. Historical and recreational. Civil War history. Civil War Battlefield. civil War history. Site of major battle during significant period of U. S. history. It was a ---- location in the American Civil War, ---- is significant to our Nation's history. To preserve Civil War history. Civil War History and preservation. Civil War info both sides. Historical value. Civil War history. Civil War. History, preservation of area environment. To preserve the natural beauty. Civil War history. Awesome enjoyment of the ---- to access environment and history of the Civil War. Civil War history and protecting the natural environment. Civil War history. Civil War history. Civil War. Historical significance b/c of the Civil War monument. History. Preservation of Civil War history. Preservation of our history-just like the Confederate Flag. Protects Civil War battlefield. Recreation/sight seeing of Civil War. Sacred ground where Union and Confederate soldiers fought and died-PRESERVE OUR HISTORY! significant. To honor the Civil War. Great place to learn about the local significance the area served during the Civil War. Preservation of history, preservation of environment. It's a part of our nation's history where part of the Civil War took place! Battlefield history. The history. Battlefield. History on the War and the views! I would say as a symbol of history and incredibility. It is a museum with beautiful views. Our Heritage-North and South Black and White. Very significant. Main Battlefield of GA, beautiful mountain. To preserve history to our children. Provides ---- ---- ---- knowledgeable $3000 our ---- and what our successors ---- through. History. Civil war. History. History of Civil War. It served in an ultimately unimportant battle because Grant knew how to walk around. Gives lesson as to our history. It was the greatest value that God gave this nation and that gave freedom to all people. Great Park and Museum. Civil War battlefield-hallowed ground. I think that was very good and this battle got to liberty to pretty much people. History (living history). Makes for a better understanding of history. Shows Civil War history of Atlanta area. This park is the only historical remembrance of the campaign that led to the re-election of Lincoln and sounded the death knell of the Confederacy. To preserve our history as a whole. Battlefield. Confederacy. A good place to learn the real history of our country and the significance of those who came before us and died to make us free! Historic telling of what happens when a Nation tears itself apart. Sherman's success paved the way for Lincoln's re-election.  If he had failed, who knows how things would have turned out? Civil War history which helps our new generation understand history. Great information about the Civil War and Activity Park. It offers both amazing hiking and a lesson in history. The battle and defeat of the Confederate Army. It has great value. Honoring/remembering those who fought in the Civil War.  The recreations are good.  Always recalled well by all greats-historical reminders always good! In 1864 there was a Civil battle here the north lost but headed to Atlanta where they won. Limited. Civil War History. Preserves historical places-neat place for hiking; scenery even if the historical items do not interest you. Commemorating Civil War history. What a wonderful way to combine encouraging fitness and preserving history. Great way to learn/refresh history of Civil War. Beauty and history! Civil War history. It is an excellent resource for children and adults to learn more about the historical significance. Real life civil war battlefield.  Turning point for the North. Sherman, Billy. Civil War. (1) To remember/honor and learn lessons from Civil War past.  (2) Interest ---- for area.  Interp Ranger Jake Bowling excellent/caring. The significance of the Civil War on our nation. In the hope that history will not repeat itself in the U.S. It is a historic location at which important events took place during the Civil War. Commorate Civil War battle. It commemorates a historic battle during the Civil War and uses exhibits to teach visitors about it. Its role in perhaps the most divisive history in America. The historical relevance. Piece of American history. Preservation of natural resources as well as place of historical significance."
26,Monocacy NB,MONO,"It teaches us about the past. I had not known that DC was threatened in 1864.  All battlefields important.  Reminds us that men fought and died for us. The history of the nation. The continuation of the war and allowance for an eventual union victory. Honors the men who saved our capital during the Civil War. Battle that saved Union, very historically significant. Location of the Civil War battle that saved the national capital ---- invasion. If the defense of ---- had failed to buy time for troops to move to Washington the course of our history would have changed. Site of the Civil War Battle that saved Washington DC. History of how America became America. Our history is ----.  Thank you for preserving the space. To stop the attack on Wash. by slowing the ---- army and allowing reinforcement of the Capitol. 0 Battle of monocracy saved the Union. Very important to protecting DC! ---- The civil War? To realize where we came from as a nation. Good story to tell...I learned some ---- thing I had not known. Civil War Battle. This is an incredibly resource that we didn't know existed. Too close to closing...we will be back. Civil War ---- to history of USA. Remembering history is always a valuable education and lesson. Gives great significance to a very important part of US history. Great part of our history. Important to Civil War heritage, honor sacrifice made. It is important to remember the struggle our country went through to keep us one Nation and Free for All. Preserving our ---- Providing insight to America's past that every American and visitor should see. Held of confederate advance on Washington, DC in ---- Civil War. Molding/creation of country. Area ---- ---- history. The battle that took place here stopped a last minute Confederate attack on DC, saved our nations capital and nation! Civil War History-Hallowed Ground. Highly significant to saving of Washington, D.C. in the Civil War. How Union soldiers fended off Confederates who were trying lay siege to Washington DC. A spot where history was made and should not be forgotten.  This was the 3rd battlefield I visited and 2nd Civil War site. Battle saved the capital. From PA; and didn't know of the battle on the park. Come with ---- I was QUITE IMPRESSED. Great-thank you. This battle saved the nation's capital from being taken by enemy forces. Civil War battlefields are extremely important in our park system so people can visit and learn about them. Our nations history, which should be preserved and viewed by ""All"" young and old. Any battle how large or small is important to our history and heritage of are nation. Important battlefield during the civil war. Battle prevented take over of Washington, D.C. Helpful! Battle of Monarcy may have saved Washington. Very good.  It is good to see historical areas preserved and used for education. Preservation of history, a good learning tool for our youth. Teach visitors important civil war history. Any battle of Civil War has significance.  People gave their lives for their beliefs. Delayed confederate forces! Very important-prevented Washington DC from falling. Important Civil War battlefield, commemoration. Battle that ""saved"" Washington DC?! NPS Rangers are great courteous and quite knowledgeable. To provide an accurate account of history for civil war battles. The battle that saved our nation's capital from invasion, much of the area preserved enough to envision with it was like. ---- ----. National battlefield. It memorializes a small battle that stopped the last Confederate invasion of the North. Importance of understanding the full scope of the Civil War. The historical context of this preserved land-the battle and it's surroundings. Very important during the American Civil War ""The Battle That Saved Washington"". Our history-the civil war-is our heritage-how can we prevent this from ever happening again! The park provides a physical reminder of the American Civil War. Saving of our nation's capital. Very important park. History significant. Remembrance of hallowed ground.  Education purposes. Saving of Washington and it's history! The battle of Monocracy protected Washington, DC from an invasion by General Jubal Early's confederates. Was a important part of the Civil War. Defense of Washington. Excellent program-152nd arrow of Monocracy. One of the biggest wars in American history. Protection of Washington. History of what happened here. Key battle in the Civil War. Documentation of the battle that occurred here. The battle that took place here is more important that most people realize.  I applaud all involved in preserving this area's rich history. Significant Civil War battle, protected D.C.. To teach people how important this battle was in stopping the South from reaching D.C.. Confederate victory. Though a loss to the federals, the battle stalled Carly for a day, and allowed Washington ---- to be ----. Important to appreciate sacrifices and significance of Civil War. Our united history. Civil War History.  Local, Regional and National importance. It may be the site that saved the Union.  Needs to be preserved. This Park is excellent!  We came here about 6 mos. ago and loved it.  Today (July 9) we came back to show the grandkids.  The program was excellent.  Thank you so much.  Keep it up! Civil War history.  Battle that saved Washington. This is a Civil War battlefield very educational. The fact that due to a battle here Washington DC was saved! The battle fought here quite possibly prevented the permanent split of our country.  Had CSA troops occupied Washington during an election year, Lincoln would probably have lost and McClellan would have sued for peace. Critical if not widely known battle, also a beautiful area. To learn what soldiers and family went through at war times. Monocracy played a significant part in the out come of the civil war. Significant Civil War Battle site. Interpretation of historic significance of the site-Civil War battlefield (we visited on the anniversary of the battle). To remember a time that divided our nation and then we reunited. Civil War Battle. Helped save Washington D.C. Union forces held to attach on Washington DC which could have been ---- for ---- this park preserves that history. This battle ---- significance in the history of Washington DC. It tells the story of how our nation was formed. Helps people learn more about the Civil War. This battle was significant to the direction of the country during and after the Civil War.  An important part of Civil War and our history. This was the battle that save Washington D.C. from being captured by the confederate. We have to preserve our heritage. The confederates last effort to take Washington city. Great grand father fought here.  PttB reg3, company D. Battle possibly saved D.C. from capture. Great significance. It ties things together. Civil War battle took place here. The Civil War seems pretty significant! Plus this battle saved D.C. from Confederate forces? Significant. A significant battle during the civil War that protected Washington, DC, from being taken by the Confederate Army. Stopped the Southern march to DC."
27,Devils Postpile NM,DEPO,"A geological and natural wonder. Extremely important for education and the environment. Enjoying the ---- of nature. It's one of our many geological wonders.  Also the name coming from ---- Spaniard colonists when CA belonged to them.  Natural history. Unique western alpine environment and geology. Preservation, conservation. Same and preserve the beauty. Best post piles in Western U.S.. Geological unique site. Rainbow falls, Devils ---- ----. The park provides an outlet for the general public to appreciate the capabilities and rarities of nature, offering a nice call back to origins less based on technology. Natural beauty; geological formations; gorgeous meadows; beautiful river landscapes. Unique geological history. Preserving nature beautiful. Education; preserving the area for future generations of animals and humans. It makes us proud of your service.  Thank you all. Geologic feature for preservation, access to high country. Preserving significant geology. Post pile. Of utter importance to preserve all the magnificent and unique areas of the Country. Preserving a natural structure that represents a unique geological experience. Exceptional landscape, terrain and recreational opportunities. Glaciers and volcano info."
28,Great Smoky Mountains NP,GRSM,"To preserve nature. Natural history, mtn heritage. The smoky mountains are beautiful, but it borders so ---- states it's convenient. Natural beauty, preservation of natural habitats.  Large area brought back to natural state. History and God's creation. To preserve the natural beauty of our country. The beauty of it. Education. Hiking. Historical community. Everything is precious. ---- Preserves natural beauty of lands. To preserve the natural park of our country.  I love getting to hike in such wonderful places. Keep us connected to what is important. Eastern Wildspace. Historical. I am so thankful this amazing park was preserved for everyone to enjoy.  Thank you so much! This park preserves the beautiful nature and year after year as our nation  changes this part and its creature,  will say the same for future generations. Preservation of natural heritage and early American history. Bio diversity of plant and animal life, the education of the people about the importance of these areas. Preserve historical and scenic areas. Hills, bears, wildlife. Keeping our heritage-natural and historical. Natural forest/environment.  Historic place. Enjoy the mountains. History and conservation. The ability for everyone to enjoy such a pristine and natural environment. Unique nature of ""Smokies."" Preservation of our natural resources. Hearing of the wild. Everything is beautiful! Family education and recreation. Nature and leaving it how it's found. Freedom. Great to learn about nature. History. Just the beauty of it all. National parks are needed to provide safety and protection for animals. To learn the historical value of the settlement and to enjoy the natural beauty. The history of the park and national conservation. Leisure time ---- it. Nature. To make God's beauty saved for us to enjoy. Historical place. Historical. Mountains. Natural historic references. Protecting wildlife and preserving nature. The history and beauty add to the fabric of the NPS. This preserves the history of the area and animals and plants. Exposing my kids to nature. Great place to come see the mountains and beautiful scenery. It's a great way to introduce natural for all. Nature. Natural wonder.  Quiet.  Thanks for the pet trails. Heritage and animal ----. Beautiful mountains and ----. Biodiversity. Extremely important. The great outdoors! Helps the animals. Historically accurate. Very significant. Beauty of the area-wildlife and plants. Mountains. Extreme biodiversity and preservation of a wonderful area of land. Great adventure. History, nature in its beauty. Nature, beauty, and fresh air. Preservation of nature. YES. Mountains, Caves, former inhabitants and farms, Churches. First Settlers in this region. To preserve the ---- nature. Original forest and beauty. Loved the Park!  No phones, no hurry:  Just God's Beauty. Learning about the history of the first Settlers to this area. Natural beauty. Wildlife, amazing views. It's a beautiful place to visit, lots of history also. National Parks are ---- ---- Country and ---- ----. To preserve God's creation for all to see! Nature conservation. Highest Mountain. In part, it defines the legacy of the American spirit in that which people can see today what was prized by our ancestors. It means we get to preserve the beauty for our children. Nature history. ---- has done a great job preserving the Country's natural resources and history. Black Bears, History of Settlers, Nature Preserve. Preserving the beauty of our Country. The natural beauty. The history and beauty of this Park is so important. Preserve the natural beauty of State and Country. All Parks gives the opportunity to step back in time for a little while. Allows all citizens to enjoy a real experience of nature and history.  Encourages thought about what explorers did and the importance of natural areas to our nation. Great for generations to come. Very important! It's beauty. This park has a huge significance to me and the natural value that it provides to the country and this region. Land being preserved! To remember the past and the beauty of the mountains. Preserving the nature. To preserve the cultural aspect-showing how previous generations lived; and preserving natural resourced. One of the best recreational and historic areas in the Eastern U.S. So much history that needs to be shared and if not, will be last. Great place. Historical and information given. About what's good about nature and American.  Miss Shildey excellent.  Thanks! Museum. It provides the public a view of some of the beauty locations in the United States. Everyone needs a place they can come for a reasonable cost to just get back to nature, very good for children to be off the grid for a while. Preserving our heritage. To always have places to go where people can enjoy the true beauty of America. It preserves our national resources and wildlife. Linking and expanding the Parkway corridor of protected lands. We need to keep to keep natural areas like this open and to the public! The beauty of the mountains and wildlife. Giving ALL CITIZENS access to the beauty, enjoyment and awe of our nation's wild places.  Public lands are treasures to be preserved. Exclusion-untouched wilderness. An amazing area-new to me-and so glad it has/is being cared for. The trees and elevations. Preserving the first area settlers crossed. Good image about the nature. Cherokee town/land. National treasure.  Must see. We should appreciate Native Indians more.  We should be more helpful to keep all National Parks as good as ----. Beautiful. Preservation of history, nature, and making it accessible to all ages and demographics. Preserve wildlife. To keep the animal safe and allow future generations to learn about and appreciate nature's beauty. Freedom. Legacy and American heritage. The heritage. This park is very important to my family. To enhance appreciation of the natural world. It is important to have large natural areas. Diversity of plant life, longs, wildlife, etc. Part of Appalachian mnts trail.  Beauty ---- trail of ----. Could not do without national parks, large and small. We can all enjoy this place! LOVE the NPS!  My family visits, every year.  Truly a unique and rewarding experience. To preserve for future. Our park should be our own priority their our national treasures. History, cultural and nature conservation. The beautiful scenery. The geological history of the mtns.  The families and communities that sacrificed to make this possible. You're saving valuable land in an historic area-A treasure. Needed for the future of our children and ---- children. Very important. Beautiful nature of America, preserved for generations to come.  I came as a child and now bringing my children. Beautiful park!  Loved it! History of mountain people and experiences. It represents a period of history because of it's location that is often overlooked by textbooks. Large. Preserve the nature of the ----. The beauty of the park. Beauty, preservation, conservation. It shows how life was simpler and better, no technology.  Simple. All of the exhibits indoors and outdoors. Environmental, and important to national history. Get in touch with nature. Natural habitat for the wildlife in the area! Protect the beauty of the area from commercialization. History, sites. Mountains. Preserves the heritage of the settlers who first traveled and lived here. East Coast park. The vast array of mountains, ----, etc., forests. Beauty. Appalachian region history. To preserve the past and how the relation of what we had. History plus beautiful wild scenery. Diversity. Beauty, wilderness and wildlife. Beauty, wildlife. Excellent place to visit. Nature and history preserve. Shows the perseverance and hard work they had to endure to survive. This is a very valuable historical asset. Beautiful and owned by all of us! Beautiful forest and creeks parks. Beauty and history. Keep part of our country pristine.  Let the ---- --- ---- nature. Learn about settlers. Natural beauty.  Clean. Preservation and display of past mountain culture. Preservation. Scenery. Tell about ancestry. To preserve and enjoy wildlife and environment for future generations. The Smoky Mountain's wilderness and heritage."
29,Sagamore Hill NHS,SAHI,"Wonderful history of Teddy Roosevelt with fabulous museum and house tour! To learn more about one of our great presidents and his role in American history and contribution to preserving our nation's lands. To learn more about one of our great leaders. Alternative/summer White House; house of leading person on park system (T.R. Roosevelt). The home of one of the best and most significant US presidents. I learned so much about T. Roosevelt and our country.  Would like to have heard a little more about the NP centennial, but it was still GREAT! Preserves the history and legacy of resident Theodore Roosevelt. Yes, very! The only home ever owned by our 26th President. T.R. was and continues to be a great inspiration to everyone in our family.  I take all of our out of town visitors here. TR's ---- ---- White House! Family-oriented. A well documented history of one of our truly GREAT presidents.  Worth the trip (from Wyoming). Historical importance and preservation. Tangible history of a great American family.  My 3 and 5 year olds had a great time with the bunny ranger activity. It is the home of Teddy Roosevelt. History and legacy of T. Roosevelt. To honor and never forget one of the greatest presidents this world has ever seen. Summer White House. Just finished 8M renovations and no air-conditioning?  Bad planning.  Preserving history without air control. TR is one of the most important people in our nation's history.  Seeing his family dynamic and the gift he received from his work is very important. The home of TR, so interesting to see how he lived. History. Our tour guide on 7/23/16 at 1:30 p.m. was great.  Very interesting.  Howard Ehrlich. To the contributions of Teddy Roosevelt to American history. Home of my favorite president. Preservation of president's home and history."
30,Longfellow NHS,LONG,"Incredible artifacts in the house, excellent preservation efforts. Of great significance.  First head quarters of George Washington and home of one of America's greatest poets. Both historical and literary. Historical. Important residence throughout the 18th and 19th centuries. Highly significant, both from a historical and a literary significance.  Everything well preserved and beautifully displayed.  Excellent home tour! Home of Longfellow, HQ of George Washington. To highlight the nation's history and literary importance. Refined literary history and its affect with current events at the time. Amy did a fantastic job as tour guide, describing the historical significance of the house. An architectural and historical cultural treasure. Historical significance.  Washington and Longfellow. Poet, GW, history itself. The history of this house can be often compared to current events-immigration, treatment of immigrants, where our cheap consumer goods come from. Because Longfellow wrote important poetry.  George Washington, first president, established his Continental Army.  Lots of history. Well, it was Washington's headquarters and Longfellow's home-what else do you need?  (Dumb question.) Significance to the formation of the nation. Visual history has more impact than just written history. It is a tribute to two of our famous national figures. Remembering literary history. Home of many ----! Extremely valuable to preserve a national treasure such as this.  It makes history ""live!"" So grateful to see house museums like this one preserved.  Yes, George Washington lived here, but so did a literary family. Anna Christie was a knowledgeable and enthusiastic tour guide.  This is my second visit this trip because I enjoyed it so much. Definitely significant historically; amazing to walk through.  I ALWAYS try to find NPS tours when I visit places for work or pleasure. George Washington and Longfellow residence. Great house with multiple reasons to be a national home. History of George Washington and Longfellow.  Great step back in time. National and INTERNATIONAL-used by Washington and Longfellow's poetry. Longfellow's house is wonderful.  Fantastic. The tour of the house. This is the place where Gen. Washington was stationed for nine months and the residence to one of our greatest poets. Well kept home with excellent guide.  Very impressed. Historical. The historical significance due to Washington's stay and Longfellow's contributions to American literature. Revolutionary War and literary history. The home of the ---- ----, so is the family history. Yes! Historical, literary and presentation. To allow us to experience the past.  It's an honor to walk the same places that Washington and Longfellow walked. Housed major American figures, visitors and events. Value because poets like Longfellow contribute to the essence of USA. George Washington. Representation of Washington's headquarters. Washington stayed here briefly during the Revolutionary War and it was the home of Longfellow, where he wrote many poems. Abby Rhinehart-very helpful and knowledgeable. Highly historic, well preserved treasure that needs continuous support. Loved the tour! History of Longfellow and Washington. History of Longfellow house used by Washington as HQ. To help people have a greater understanding and appreciation of the history of Henry Longfellow and his family. Historical value of Longfellow and others who lived here.  Preservation of architectural features, portraits, artifacts. A beautiful example of American architecture and a piece of American history. Historical value. Important national leader:  George Washington and Longfellow. The beginning of the American history and of a new literature. Tremendously significant. Where Washington stayed-Longfellow lived.  Two historical figures. History! Longfellow and Washington and history of C18 and C19 U.S.. Very significant.  Literature expresses the core, heart of our times-how we struggle and how we triumph. The value comes from Henry Longfellow and George Washington.  Their achievements as they lived here. Very important. Early Rev. War and 19th century literary figures. Its historical significance due to Washington's headquarters and home of one of our most revered literary figures. American history and literature come together! American Revolution-George Washington's headquarters and Longfellow/Appleton/Dana family historical contributions. Anna, our tour guide, is outstanding! Between Longfellow and Washington-American history and letters! Global. Helps promote understanding of Revolutionary War history (Washington's resilience for ---- of the beginning of the war), and Longfellow history-preservation/conservation is excellent, wonderful and see how things were during Longfellow's life here. Amazing information.  Great part of U.S. history. GREAT! Historically-Washington and Longfellow. I am prof of literature at Emory University, and I think the site and the tour were fantastic! If this doesn't inspire, I don't know what will!  The antiques and structures are fantastic. Longfellow and Washington. Teaches the kids about American history. Wonderful stories and preservation of two people that contributed to U.S. culture. Birth of our nation as Washington HQ. It's a rich historical site of two great early Americans. Both George Washington and Longfellow were known for this house. The nature of it's beauty. Henry Longfellow. Important information on literary social, academic life in America. Historical preservation. Residence of George Washington and Henry Longfellow.  Duh. It tells the story of ---- ----.  Foundation of the nature ----. Both as Washington's headquarters and home of Longfellow. Longfellow house is significant to both the revolutionary war and American literary history, plus a great historical home. History preservation. Both as Washington's HQ at a critical time in the revolution, and as the home of one of America's greatest poets, Henry Longfellow. Henry Longfellow's house.  George Washington also stayed at the house. So much great history, a view into the lives of significant people in history and the role this home played in their lives. Washington's Headquarters and Longfellow and friends meeting place/living quarters. Headquarters of George Washington/Longfellow family.  Military and ---- establishment of our nation. Home of famous American author and temporary home of national military leader. The headquarters of the revolutionary war and home of Longfellow has a political, and artistic/poetic value to our nation and society! Longfellow was a famous author, but also knew many famous people of the time-got to learn about them through his eyes. The Tour enlightened me to much of the significance.  I also was drawn to visit MA author's residency and everything else was a bonus. The legacy of one of America's greatest poets of the 19th Century-my 25-year wait is over and teach American Literature in NC. Establishment and culture of national heritage. The history of this house and who lived in it. The history, architecture, and lives all come together to give one insights into the period of then and now. Historical and library history. Preserving our history today. Great significance!  Washington and Longfellow! Very important to preserve history. The importance of Longfellow's poetry in American culture. It is significant, but needs restoration.  House ceilings in poor condition. Has significance for the Revolutionary War and Transcendental Movements. Very significant historical center. Historical importance! Historical significance. High. Our tour guide, Walter, put it best:  The house combines the historical contribution of the sword (Washington) and the pen (Longfellow). Both a national president a historic poet. Connection between Washington and Longfellow. Extremely important site showcasing life of upperclass Americans over the centuries, and the life of Longfellow and family, who helped define our American identity and share it w/the world. Historical significance. It has huge significance in Washington's MA headquarters and Longfellow's house.  The ---- is a treasure trove. The house is a great material way to connect w/Washington and Longfellow, history and literature. Washington stayed here.  Longfellow lived here. Incredible history and really impressive. It is a crucial part of our early national history-the very place for our national resistance were hatched here.  It's also part of ---- history. A beautiful, well preserved home of one of America's foremost poets as well as the headquarters of Washington during a pivotal time in the nation's history. The historical significance of the Washington/Longfellow house. Where Longfellow stayed where Longfellow did his working. Critical importance of the times, war and city of Cambridge. Our founding father George Washington ----  ---- preserving this ---- of a national park. This park is exceptional because it crosses so many domains and aspects of American history and literature! This was a terrific tour!  Rich in history.  The settings seemed sacred.  Thank you for allowing one to visit! America needs this national park for history. So much early American history in one place!  Also, Japanese furniture collection is great. Longfellow is a very important part of American Literature History and a number of historical figures came to this house. It is important to preserve the heritage of the United States. Historical significance for ---- and Americans. Part of the story of the beginning of the revolution (esp. the behind the scenese management); family, preservation. Key center for influencers in our national ---- here. The poet that lived there and how George W. used it as HQ. To conserve the beauty of historical Boston. A chance to view New England. ---- life style. Also U.S. history. Great play to see a well preserved living quarter. ---- Art and ---- history. Very historic time period. George Washington's headquarters and Longfellow George Washington. Important historically. It's wonderful to see the artifacts of the Longfellow family and to realize through the tour their significance to the people of their day. This park is historical site significance for it's national and literary importance. It holds artifacts that are historically valuable, as well. Vital historical reference. The history of ---- the historical significance of ----. American history-George Washington American literature-Henway W. ----. Longfellow was a very important man in our literature history. It's good that it has been preserved. Cultural history ---- to a great national ---- of the ----. This park (site) is a little gem-Rich with history-I learned much and this ---- experience was ----. To share the story of Americas founding and a continuation of that story into the 19th century. Great historical and artistic significance. Outstanding. Residents of great man. Historical figures, U.S. history. Important to political as well as literary history of USA. This Park is important to preserve history for future generations and keep America tied to its origins. Very meaningful-inspiring minds to seek learning and preserving the culture of America and its brilliance.  Thank you! History of great ---- Americans; American history; roots of our great Nation. Two great Americans lived here, played on important role in history. To bring education to people who want to learn. Historical significance of literary figure and historical/military figure (Washington). Very impressed by the knowledge of the guide and how wonderful the home has been kept.  Very surprised and pleased. Very important for your national history and culture. Important part of Washington getting the army together. Very informative regarding the Revolutionary period in America and the culture of Cambridge at the time. Fantastic piece of history.  Brilliantly presented. Arts, history of the revolution. Gen Washington stayed here and Longfellow lived here with family and collection of family objects are ----. History, sharing perspective on figures influenced nation's development. It is imperative that the country's history be preserved in the way you have done. Literary history is extremely important. George Washington's stay and rise. Hugely significant because George Washington was here. Home of George W for ---- months.  Home of important poet. Displayed and in several different ways, from being the home to General Washington during the Revolution to housing literary greats. Excellent tour in an enthusiastic and knowledgeable guide.  Better than some of the paid tours I've done! Incredibly high-connecting the birth of the nation through one of the 19th century's intellectual giants. Longfellow and Washington. The historical information of the occupants of the home and their significance in shaping the history of the country. V impt-founding of nation. History associated with George Washington and Longfellow and associates. The extended history. Being able to see where George Washington had his headquarters was awesome. Literature, public figures. Historical home for one of country's great poets and ties into the early history of American creation with Washington. It allows us to today to enjoy the birth of and liberty and culture. Very important for literacy history. Huge.  Both political and artistic importance.  We LOVED it. Headquarter for George Washington in Boston area a long ---- home. George Washington headquarters during the Revolutionary War. For me it was that George Washington uses the Longfellow house as his head quarters during the revolutionary war. Revolution American ----. That George Washington resided there, as well as Longfellow.  Also the great man that visited him, example Paul Revere, etc. Has historical significance as Washington HQ and literary significance as Longfellow home. Washington head quarters. George Washington headquarters (---- history link) and nice presentation on significance of Longfellow's work. Home of the poet Longfellow and his family.  Historical significance of George Washington is headquarters. The Longfellow/Washington house is significant to our earliest history tour literacy culture.  Important elements to know and appreciate. A major historical residence and meeting place that hosted many of America's cultural and political leaders. Aesthetically ingratiating, historically ----.  Please find new ----, ---- move from ----. A connection to our past that can be utilized today.  Washington, Longfellow and cultural music.  Great. Historical to learn about Washington and ---- life in an 1860's household. There is historic significance with both George Washington and Longfellow and literary significance with the number of visiting greats. Very good on anti-slavery attempts. ---- Longfellow played significant role during formative years in this country contributing to literature, education and social causes. It is the headquarters of General George Washington when he received command of the Continental Army. Washington's headquarters and Longfellow's residence. Connection to persons involved in U.S. history and culture, but more so showing the interconnectedness a relatively short time frame of US history. This location has significant history due to the revolutionary war aspects with G. Washington as well as more contemporary significance given Longfellow's contribution to our society and culture. The history of the residents and the history of the times gives insight to the thinking and struggles of the day and age. Wonderful example of history and literature coming together. Used by George Washington during revolutionary war.  Later home of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Very inspirational about national heritage. It has so much history, and was used by ---- that remain so important to our country today. That it was home to George Washington during the Revolutionary War."
31,Glen Canyon NRA,GLCA,"History of pioneers and impact on area. Great recreation in the desert and Rainbow Arch is a ""true"" treasure. Huge!!!  One of the wonders of the world! Fishing, Boating, Hiking. Its beauty and ancient Indian petroglyphs, unusual rock formations.  Being able to see it up close by boat-very important to us. Great. Most beautiful lake exploring canyons. Water storage and control recreation. The lake and ferry. Water recreational area. It's amazing.  We've been coming here for 35 years.  It's our kids favorite vacation. Beauty. Beauty of the place is unreal. It's a national treasure. Best. Waterskiing. Anywhere. Also spectacular sights. A very nice gathering place. Fun and enjoyment. Rainbow bridge. The whole thing serves as an example of what we can do. 0 Amazing to keep so much nature undeveloped! Cake/smore recreation. Electrical generation/recreation. The view and the wonderful locations. The water has increased the usage and visitation from all over the world. A great family relaxing experience.  Family togetherness and bonding through fun amazing scenery. Beautiful scenery of large rocks and cliffs, warm water. Recreation, sightseeing, beauty. A beautiful place to recreate with family, energy producing. The lake and surrounding area are wonderful.  Have been at ---- area many times.  This area is better maintained.  They at least make an attempt. The lake is a rare and unique place to visit lots of Indian history. The park represents in my opinion a natural wonder which needs to be preserved for future generations to experience. Recreation. Preservation of natural beauty (water for California?). Great. The lake of course! Enjoying the outdoors and the natural beauty. A beautiful place. Hold water for down stream usage which causes tourism/recreation. I love lamp. Able to see country that would never be seen otherwise. To preserve and promote beauty and culture. A lake unlike any other. Was established as part of larger ""lock"" system as 1st of 3 to supply water to Southern California. Nature at his best. Important. Magnitude and beauty of US nature. Beautiful scenery. One of a kind place. Glen Cayman/Luke Powell are a one of a kind special place.  Which my personal opinion is we should have never ---- to ---- ---- ---- Glen Canyon, Lake Powell is magnificent art and provides great ----. Desert Canyon beauty. The geology of the canyon and the Colorado River. Natural environment protection/education for kids. We have been coming to Lake Powell with our family for over 20 years and now bring our grand children to houseboat and enjoy the beauty-Magnificent!  Thank you. The canyon and river. 2nd largest man made reservoir in US; but... where's the best fishing? One of the greatest ---- on Colo river for water and recreation. Geologic time-human time. Rainbow Bridge-Glen Canyon dam. History of area geology-ability to appreciate beauty of area. The Dam and the history of the rocks. Dam and reserve for swimming and boating. History. Horse Shoe ---- Trails, Hanging Garden Trail. Not only the engineering feat of the reserve but also the vastness and remoteness of the side canyons.  Balance between wilderness and resource management. It's beautiful.  Too beautiful. To protect one of the most beautiful places in the world. Historical treasure-all worth safekeeping. Preserve nature. H2O Reserve for ---- Appreciate Utah's natural beauty, we have come every year since I was born."
32,Manassas NBP,MANA,"The Civil War began on these grounds and then returned a year later for a 2nd battle. The site of two important battles during the Civil War. We must honor the men who died for our Country.  This is a reminder of the price we pay for freedom. Valor of soldiers. Commemorating the two battles of Manassas. A reminder of the divisive nature of American race relations and the horror of war. It is critical to preserve the actual battlefield as the only way to really understand the events. Important to our history. It brought about an identity to America which is also characterized in its ---- people ----. You MUST keep our Civil War sites alive. This is one of the most important tracks of land to care for and interpret for Americans interested in history. Important Site to preserve our Nation's history and understand the Civil War.  Our family loved our N. Parks. It has great significance, as the site of two Civil War Battles. Historical. Maintaining the feel of the land from the Battle Time Frame. The history!  We need to know where we came from to appreciate where we are going. The Park is an excellent way to commemorates the Battlefield. Because it was the first Battle of the Civil War which changed history forever. Honoring our history!  And instilling in our children and appreciation of honor! To remember those who gave their lives in service of the nation and in order to preserve the union. Battle of Bull Run.  Has connections with Gettysburg. Part of our nation's history-important Civil War, Battle of Bull Run. Very moving.  Significant historical location.  Lovely place. The first battle ground of the civil war, so near DC, the struggle begins with serious costs. To learn a quick war was no longer possible. To preserve and tell and show the story of an incredibly important and informative time in our country. History-never forget where we have been. Blessed to have those sacrifice (for others) so much, for what's morally right in their hearts, for a lifetime of freedom. It is an integral part of our country's history. It helps to educate young and old about VA's past and the sacrifices our citizens made for change. First bottle both ---- war was gone to long war. Reminder that political conflicts and moral conflicts can lead to civil war if not addressed by other means.  Costs are incredible and horrible. To teach the history of the Civil War. Insight into Civil War. First battle of Civil War. One of the initial major battles of the Civil War. Historical value. It's significance is teaching the early history surrounding a formative period of our nation's history and the building of its character. Esp. liked ---- map/presentation seen at visitor center when we arrived.  Helped put chronology and geography of battle up ----. Site of the first Civil War battle. A place to remember a very painful part of the nation's history. Historical landmark. Very important. Important historic battle. It is very important. The Civil War battlefield. We need these to teach the younger generations what took place in our country. The civil war is an important piece of history for all Americans to know! Immeasurable, which says it all. To teach us of our historical past when our Country was going through great turmoil. To capture and share history with our children so it's not forgotten. Kids. The national significance is the 2 battles of Manassas. It is a part f our national history. Insight into civil war. To remind me of our past so hopefully we will not repeat it.  My wife and I enjoyed the history we learned while ----. Park is significant because of two civil war battles, while trails are excellent opportunity for exercise, ---- and resources should focus on the battles and their impact. Joe, the Ranger at Manassas Stone House at the time of my visit (7/16/16-1:30 PM) is a real gem, so very knowledgeable.  He ---- to make the history come alive.  He knew ---- one never learned in school.  He is a keeper! Showcasing two (first and second Manassas) battlefields that paid a crucial role in the human cost of the American Civil War. The historical content is major.  This was the site of a magnificent civil war battle and this history cannot be lost! 1st major Battle of Civil War. The historical learning opportunities, the beautiful natural recreational resources. Keeping the history of the battlefield alive. Starting point of our nation's Civil War. Maintains and preserves our history. It represents American history ---- History, culture.  Let us never do this again. To remember the lost lives and the history of our country. American history. In the understanding of where our nation started and where our nation is going. It is the point of origin in ""one nation under God"". Best presentation is the dynamic differences, the more the better. Super. First battle of CW. Preserving American history and to educate about decisive battles in the civil war. Great. Keeping our history alive. To learn educate ---- and not forget. First major battle of Civil War price of freedom. My son asked for a to prove ---- from the visitors center to the Henry house. Two important battles closer site to DC. Our history is important to who we are as a nation.  Maintaining it is vital to future generations. Civil War needs to be preserved and celebrate. Education of VA and Battle Bull Run. Kevin ----, our guide was outstanding.  Our parks are a wonderful resource. To showcase the battle of the bill for visitors ---- residents of Virginia. A clear exposition of the first battle and the futility of ----.  Vast under estimation of how horrible war is. Manassas ---- Remembering our history and reminding us what war does to our society. Site of first battle.  The war of ---- aggression. To never forget!! To make people aware of the honors of the Civil War and dedication of the North and South to their causes.  (Our tour guide was GREAT!!!!  (Wolf). It it always good and necessary to study history so as not to repeat it.  Also, it is our culture that men and women die for. Historic. Civil War Battle. Civil War history. First battles of our Civil War, such a sad time for our nation. Reminds our shared history of America. To remember our past. Very significant.  What we are now as a nation is shaped by what we were. Beginning of Civil War. Educational. Every American needs to learn and understand how our country came to be.  Freedom is not ----. History of our nation and ---- History. Remembering the Civil War. This battlefield's significance is marked by its closeness to the nation capital as well as being the site of the war 1st major land battle of the ---- area. History of civil war-remembrance.  Why we have freedom.  Recognize veterans and be thankful to them. Remembering the Civil War and learning to not repeat history. History of the Battle of Bull Run."
33,Jewel Cave NM,JECA,"Preserving this Cave gives us all an opportunity to learn and be amazed.  Glad our Nation preserves it forever.  Bob Henry super too, long chat with him! To preserve the beauty of the nature of our land. Every person should have the opportunity to see the nation's 3rd longest cave in the world. Provides science/learning opportunities as well as tourism. One of a kind experience the caves. The unique caves and great park ranger. The spirit of adventure. To learn bout the area's geography and see the beauty in mother nature. To preserve history, an aquifer. The beauty of the cave, the historical significance. The caves. Big cave! Caves-scope. (Family of five, three children under nine.)  Preservation of Jewel caves for all to enjoy.  Thank you! Very good learning opportunity. EXCELLENT!  Learned a lot about geology and bats. Having our national parks continue to be open and able to use them! History, geography. It gives a great sense of how things were formed in the Black Hills. It's a jewel that deserves to be preserved. Preservation that is vitally important. The preservation of an incredible natural resource. Very important, save for future generations.  Not much left in original condition elsewhere. Just an amazing natural space! Highly significant, based on the length. Very important to preserve and show these features. Example of interesting geology unique to this region. The cave is very unique and wonderful to explore and see! Super important. 0 Beautiful and amazing history of the land. Unity for people to enjoy our ---- charms. Preserving a natural environment sharing history. Cave significance and exploration. It is educational and informative and beautiful. Very significant to be preserved for the future population. Highly significant due to the unmatched natural, underground beauty.  This is a natural treasure! Letting kids explore caves safely. It is a national treasure.  It represents a third world of unexplored territory along with space and the deep ocean. The space. The value of the caves. Has good options for all ages and ---- (tour etc). Preservation, education and research. Natural beauty. Great Tour to see and informational. Preserve natural history. A piece of history preserved, forward thinking of President of the time. To explore and be curious. Important to have. National treasure. Enlightened look at the extent of our national geological wonders and our endeavors to discover, develop and share. It's a very special place, beautiful and healthy for people to go out and explore. Beauty for all to see. The formation of this area, as well as its significance to Native Americans and ---- population.  Also, geological significance, understanding what happens underground and ----. Knowledge. Geological interest. The preservation of a rare and unique natural resource is very necessary to future generations.  (Fan of T.R..) Natural history, beauty. Scientific. All natural wonders are worth preserving for generations to enjoy. Very big cave. To be able to explore history in its natural state. God-made wonder, amazing phenomenon. Amazing cave. It preserves the natural beauty of an impressive cave.  It is a gift for us and for our ancestors. Because it's beautiful. Preservation of nature. Wonderful record of history, American beauty. Exposure to and protection of hidden treasure. Great place for learning and really understanding our great natural systems. It is a heritage park-my third time here over 30 years.  LOVE THE PARK! The cave and its history. To protect cave ecosystems and bats. Excellent! No. Preserve geological patterns and their creation. Reminds us how beautiful this world is. Third biggest cave in the world! Third largest cave! To show the beauty and awe of the cave! It shows what the U.S. has to upkeep in order to provide for future. Preservation and respect for the natural minerals, crystals and formations. Beauty and scientific. Third largest cave in the world and ---- bigger ----, more exploration ----. Preserving the care. Absolutely amazing cave experience!  Definitely a jewel of our nation.  Thank you for sharing such an amazing natural monument! To inform youth about rocks. Learn about biology and geology of Black Hills. The cave! The cave system. Caves, history, nature, knowledge. It's a great opportunity for exploration and learning that will help our nation. Sense of adventure and discovery for children of all ages. Shows geology. This is a very informative and enjoyable tour. Very high-interesting. The geological history. Exploring a unique cave system. A national treasure. Allowing families to access sites with an expert is priceless. Appreciation for the expanse of what God has given to us. Beauty and great resource for future learning. Educational. Geological history/land formation. I think it is very significant. It shows unique features that make America special! Natural resources. Preservation of natural wonders. So important to keep our youth and future involved in the preservation of our parks and national treasure. Unique nature of the cave. CAVES! That is preserves this cave system and that it educates the public. Wonderful history, spirit of exploration, encompasses that pioneering spirit of the western expansion in present day. Great tour guide. Explore caves. Keeping all natural, beautiful pieces of land clear of development. Very cool. An important natural wonder. Expresses the importance of conservation and exploration. It is a rare cave. Unique opportunity for the average person, history. The caves are amazing and should be better known as national landmarks. Large cave. Geological formations that show history of the area. Natural caves and beauty underground. One of largest cave complexes in world; still being explored. The cave-a natural marvel.  A treasure.  (Ranger James did a terrific job on our tour.) The largest cave.  Great Junior Park Ranger program! This park represents the opportunity to visit sites normally unavailable. Length of cave, rock formation. The beauty we have here in the U.S. that needs to be preserved forever. Love caves and I enjoy learning about man through the Guides.  And I love the cool temps/ Unique geological formation and opportunity to experience underground cave. The Jewel Cave. The preservation of so many examples of rock minerals and rock formation.  The history of how the Cave was found and mapped very interesting. Showcases our ---- natural resources. It preserves geological history and formations. The fort so much is left to discover. It teaches us about geology and the ages of rock layers. Such a special, beautiful place.  So many unique things that will hopefully be around for many, many generations to admire. It is an underground wonder. Cool caves rare. It is a historic and natural national wonder. Jewel Cave is important to the natural wonders of the USA."
34,Capitol Reef NP,CARE,"The water pocket fold and the ---- ---- district. Preservation of solitude/low impact experience, geological education.  Preservation of cultural resources. History. ----. Brings one to a ---- awareness of the ---- or significant of Wilderness and beyond. Geology! and how people used the land through the years. Incredibly significant. Unique geology, anthropological significance. The orchards and your unique setting. The park should become more known.  It's so beautiful! Great American ---- ----, example of pristine America.  Wilderness, Native American art. Learning to respect Indian culture. Beautiful rock formations seen no other place. History, geology. Geological and history. History and nature. No comments.  We're Dutch. History of the Fremont tribe. A very unique place. Its natural beauty. Excellent example of our nation's unique natural beauty. The different cultures that have inhabited them, and the geology and millions of years behind the natural rocks. Its history-the orchards. Every natural feature in the state is a national treasure. History of the world. Because of a lot of rivers and rocks. Historical importance. Pioneer history and natural formations. It is a natural wonder unique to the U.S.. Amazing views. As a natural laboratory of geologic significance. Helps us understand the vastness and uniqueness of the land. History.  Protection of land and history. To preserve nature and allow us to see the beauty of elements' masterpiece. Gives us an opportunity to appreciate the beauty of land without human damage; place of peace and contemplation. Geological formations and ancestral history.  Very different from any other national park-a different kind of beauty. Unique.  Nothing like it. My favorite park for geology, history and the WONDERFUL campground. Preservation of the wonderful lands. Very educated.  Thanks. Celebrate unique pioneer history. Preserve this landscape from development.  Teach visitors about geology. A unique geology. Diverse habitat, unique geology, beautiful. Unique historical and geological features. Historical, recreation, geology, pioneer value. Preserves nature in an unaltered setting. The unique geology, the historic significance to native people as well as the history and information of the ocean/sea of the past that was once here. In my opinion, the national significance is how the rock formed itself. The contrast of the park. A great historic preserve with amazing natural formations. Geology. Shows how land formations were formed over many, many years/periods. Unique landscape. Geology.  Night sky.  Recreation. This park tells the story about the settling of the desert West. The stages of settlement from Native Americans to European settlers and their interaction with the environment. To record and preserve geological and cultural history. Pretty rocks and historic and geological value because of the layers of different ages. To protect the geologic formation.  Scenery enjoyment. Historical significance of Native Americans and early pioneer settlers. Natural beauty and cultural heritage of former native and pioneer inhabitants. Preserving the natural beauty of America, providing scenic views. To me, the most important value of the park is the preservation of the wildlife and nature status of USA. Excellent natural beauty and rich settler and native history. Shows how hard the first settlers had it and what they did for this area.  Thank you for preserving this area. We need to preserve our natural resources for others to enjoy and for the cultural significance. Alison does a great job with ranger program. The geology and history. Like all parks, it is so important to save places for history and wildlife. Learning about our ancestors. Viewing dark night sky, appreciating and connecting with nature, learning about geology. The orchards (especially the apricots) were very unique.  The geology is also significant. The red moonscape rocks, cliffs, etc.. Shows the will of the people to protect natural places for everyone. History, land and scenic. Historical and ecological. Unique geological formation. Natural beauty, history. The unique history of human beings. Beauty and history. Geological, natural. Just the history of the Fremont Indians and the pioneers that lived in Fruita and all the farming. Beauty, history of Fruita. Historic (Anasazi and Mormon), reef (barrier), geologic (waterpocket fold). It is a wonderful and beautiful place.  I have never been to a place like this. It shows amazing views from the earth's ""unique"" experience.  Great to see federal tax dollars are spent.  I hope every citizen can enjoy it. Many!  This park has tons of natural, cultural, historic, geologic, and other wonders! Preserving a unique geological feature (the long water crease). The ---- and its geology and ecosystem.  Preserving the rock faces and formations ----. Rock formations, ---- ----, beauty. At least at the same level like Bryce or Kodachrome Basin.  Enjoyed the smaller size and short distance! Geological wonders. History of area. Enjoying the natural beauty available. The amazing geology combined with the nature history and Mormon settlers.  History and scenery is always a win. Cultural and geologic. Environmental preservation for future generations. Geology and ---- history. Beauty.  Water mark.  History. Geology. It's completely unique from all of the other national parks in Utah. Its rich history combined with natural beauty is of great value to our country. Its unique landscape and preservation of a fragile ecosystem. Just became a senior member.  The price of $10 was great for us older adults. Landscape-rock formations. Overall beauty. ---- ---- ----.  Totally amazing! The beautiful scenery. The unique rock layers and formations.  The oasis ----. The water pocket fold. Unique geology. Unusual geographic features.  Interesting cultural history. The ---- made to the ---- tribes. It is beautiful to ---- at and camp at. Geologic importance and grandeur.  Historical pioneer significance. Geology. Unique geology and petroglyphs, pioneer buildings and relics. We are international visitors.  The scenery is out of this world. Geo information. The fruit trees. The ""capitol"" reason outstanding rock formations. Geological value and scenic beauty. Education, preservation. Two things come to mind-Mormon history and the Fremont people.  Would like to see more Native history. Very unique, not well known more people should've heard of this place. Very clean. ----, geology, beauty, wildlife, hikes. High; need to preserve slickrock. To protect/keep safe the nature: geology, animals, flowers,petroglyphs.  To control the impact of tourism. As a geologist, this is an unparalleled geologic wonder.  In addition, the cultural history of early Native Americans is SACRED. The Capitol Reef formations are unique as well as the Native Americans and pioneer history. Landscaping.  Historic ----. 0 It's very beautiful. The life of Native Americans, the geology of the area, history of America's West. The way the rocks look and were formed. Geological, cultural (Orchard Settlement) and Native American history. Preserve significant geological and human history.  Also to provide great alternative to the over run Zion and Arches NPS. Capitol Reef. Fabulous geologic formations. Preserving nature for nature's sake-no resorts, no developments, very few highways. Early settlers, geography, history. It's a great example of the abilities of past people to create thriving ecosystems in the middle of the desert. To educate citizens on the geological treasures of this great Country. Preservation of a varied geological and early settlers history, petroglyphs and trails. Geology, history. The geological significance is amazing.  Also, the step back in time to Fruita was enjoyable. To preserve the geology and to teach history of the area. Beautiful and unique geology and rock formations. Geographic diversity. The ---- cases and views.  Water Pocket ----. Outstanding geologies. It shows just how rough the life of the Settlers was, and it is trying to keep its memory alive. Exceptional geology and cultural history.  An oasis in the desert. It is so untouched and not over run with people.  It is wild and beautiful. Its wildlife/back country area that most Parks don't have. To preserve our geological past and appreciate its beauty. 0 The geology of the area is important as well as the history associated with the people who settled it. To preserve the environment, animals and historic evidence of past generations. History, geology. It is very unique and beautiful.  There is a lot to learn. Please see email from ---- ----. Unique geology, beauty. To preserve our history. I think the preservation of these mountains and the petroglyphs especially. Rock and river.  Keep natural environment. Preserve the nations biggest water fold pocket and country side. Preserving history of fruits, rock formations and animals. There are few if any other places with this amount and type of beauty. The water pocket fold is very unique.  An oasis for Mormons. Preserves the history of this region for future generations, along with the natural beauty of the area. Historical preservation, environmental protection. The rock vistas, the history of the area. It shows and explains the roots of the geographic history of North America. It is a hidden gem, lots of history and natural sights. Very historical-USA natural beauty. This is a great park! Geology Preserve geological features and early settlement. Preserves geologic and pioneer history. Natural beauty. Historic and scientific. Unique landscapes; preserve settler and Native American history. First nations and Mormons. 0 Both natural and cultural (Fremont people/---- and the ---- ----/community).  The capital not itself and other aspects of ---- landscape. History and culture. It's rich history-different rock formations, fruit orchards, deer. National parks represent the best of America's resources and culture.  They are an opportunity to grow a community of adventurous people who share a love of the land. The preservation of lands and history. Geological history, Native American and Mormon pioneer history, farming history. Protect it forever.  The Pres. should use ---- Act more. Geology! History, geology, conservation. It shows the beauty of a group of valleys made by a river. There is beauty and importance in preserving natural areas like Capitol Reef. Yes, great history. The geological history and the beauty. Geographical interest, beauty, early Pueblo living. Historical, geological and natural. It tells us our historical past.  Do not forget where we came from. Preserve unique landscape and cultural history. Very high. Preserve nature. Interesting geology and beautiful hikes. Education and recreation. Geological and ancestral knowledge. The rock formation. Geology preservation.  Natural beauty.  Living history. Historic landmarks of Mormon establishments and geological studies. First visit, beautiful. Preserving a very unique environment. Geography topography beauty adventure ----! The unique landscape and opportunity to experience something new. To preserve it's individuality.  This park is like more I've seen before! Well, if is a national tourist attraction so therefore the sight. The geology, history, vistas are like no other place.  It is beautiful, awesome place.  It gives a person pause and an appreciation of a bigger natural sense. Geological formations, pioneer settlements. Amazing geography/geology.  Awesome natural barrier. Education and preservation. Very impressive and essential to our cultural and historical knowledge.  I love this place! Preserve unique landscape and culture of people. Beauty of the Rock and Freemont Culture. Culturally and geologically amazing. The Mormon's settling here. The unique beauty and ancient ---- preserved here. The amazing geological and cultural history. Learn about Fremont Family. Geologic formations and historical value. Historic/cultural. History and nature. Both cultural and geologic significance. I enjoy all of the beautiful trails and historical sites.  I am glad to see them preserved for future generations. Unique geological features and history. Preserving the beautiful area of Utah for future generations. The beauty of the area, the roads, flora are all exquisite. The monocline geologic features. The water pocket fold and the history and culture of historic Fruita district. Unique geology, history and local culture. Unique geologic formations. Major, very good to have preserved. Geology, Native American and settler history so important to preserve. Seems quiet, cool temp (June), scenery environment preserving area for future. Seeing that a lot of nature is ""blemished"" with industries, farms and other human ---- it is the nations task to reserve where ever possible. Beauty, history, places where there isn't development. Maintaining wild beauty. Untouched geology. Natural geography and Morman history of Fruita. It shows the beauty of our country. The nature, ha ha. Habitat not affected tremendously by destructive human behavior. A natural rugged gorgeous place, Fruita residents life preserved, protect natural bridges. This park is a very beautiful and awe inspiring work of God's creation, and certainly needs preserved! The geological formation is done that looks like nations capital in DC. Geology and back country area. We own it. Geologic/preserve natural environment. Significantly important to preserving historical culture as well as preserving wild life. Explains way of life of early inhabitants, preserves natural beauty. Preserving unique geological features. To give future generations a taste of the past historic and orchard experiences. Awesome area!  A treasure to be saved. The beauty of the landscape natures art. This park is amazing!  One of the best and our families favorite.  We are lucky to be able to visit this incredible landscape. It is beautiful and unique. It is ours! It's beautiful and is a living testament to the wonder that nature provides. Mormon settlers with their orchards, cool rock formations. National treasure of awesome scenery. The unique geologic features alone make it worth it. Geology of the area. Cultural scientific (geology, anthropology, archeology).  Interpretative component provides public huge return on taxpayer assistance ensures this is valuable resource for generations to come. Heritage and history of the park. Unique landscape that you don't see anywhere else also the history of early peoples."
35,Klondike Gold Rush NHP--Seattle,KLSE,"History of Seattle. Significant for the history of the region. Excellent-history/culture. Historical event with lasting influences on our nation. It's very important for us to understand our past. It explains how Seattle picked up and where the fame came from, which in my experience, not many know. The history of the Seattle area. It represents the pioneer spirit of our Country from an earlier time. Preserving the history and cultural significance of the Seattle area as it relates to early settlers and stampeders ---- the gold rush. Shows time in America where the city grew. Yukon and Seattle development. Historically significant events that defend Seattle. Very awesome.  Don't change anything.  We had an awesome time. Huge significance for important history. How Seattle got rich! 0 It caused Seattle to BE! Preserving history of the north west. It provided very interesting history and information on the settling of an area and relationship to Alaska. Historical to area and time span. Gold rush! Seattle's birth/growth. Learning about Seattle's role in the Gold Rush and the Gold Rush's role in the growth of Seattle. History.  Heritage. Gold Rush and start of Seattle. History. Preservation of significant U.S. history! History of Seattle. Excellent. Part of Seattle History.  Sadly it's also an important history lesson about lost lives our 'AMERICAN GREED'. Very significant. We love the Gold Rush NHP!  We bring all our guests (and our kids in for Summer)! History. The Gateway to Alaska and The Yukon. Historical event that resulted in the growth and development of Seattle and Washington state. It tells our nations history and shows the American spirit. A good picture of Seattle's beginning, and human nature.  The food the prospectors served was amazing! It is a good way to show people the history, to let people know the origin of Seattle. Explains development of Seattle was well as impact of gold discovery. Gold a very important historical part of our nation. This park preserves the stories surrounding how and why Seattle and the Northwest were developed. Preservation of historical architectural buildings and the history. Importance of the history of Seattle. Preserving the history of the Alaskan/Yukon gold rush. A landmark of cultural change. Exhibit is very interesting but needs a map (on wall) for ---- and a bit more interactivity. History. History of Seattle and the Klondike Goldrush.  Kids ages 5-9. Seattle history and economy. To communicate to visitors the history of this area. Very excellent-we really learned a lot! Historical context for visitors to NW. Good history. Teaches the history of Seattle /Pioneer Square in relation to the Gold Rush. History and education. History of Seattle, Alaska and US. Learning about the hardships people took to fulfill the American dream. Part of Seattle's history. To keep history alive, very informative and cool. Historical. Part of Klondike gold rush journey. Helped Seattle grow. The national significance of this park is to educate us about the Klondike Gold Rush's influence in the economic growth/importance of Seattle as well as the challenges of ---- in Alaska and the likelihood of success.  I had a GREAT visit here! Very educational-hidden gem. History always important. History of North America! Klondike Gold Rush attracted people across the nation and drove western development, especially Seattle, which is now a major city. Very significant-a big part of Seattle history. It's beautiful. Gold rush. A story seldom told, site specific, an urban gem. Historical part of battle and natural history. Very interesting!  It reminds us of both the accomplishments and dangers of the U.S. entrepreneurial spirit. Relays in a wonderful way the history and a part of the US story that many of us don't know much about. I believe that it's very important for people to learn about, know, and remember the gold rush. It was significant and involved other countries. Some of our ---- cities would not be here if there was no rush. Klondike gold rush and it's effect of growth and posterity of our nation. Learning about the early history of Seattle during an important period of time. Klondike gold rush, westward expansion was complete.  Helped to populate the West, gold for our country. Learned about the Klondike Gold Rush which was a new part of American history for me! Continued protection and preservation, support of parks and their history. Great. Learning about a significant historic event. Enjoyed learning about Gold Rush history and its impact on Seattle. Great presentation of Seattle's history and importance of ---- pioneer square's legacy and architecture. I want to be a ranger. How did Seattle start and start of the Klondike Trek. Klondike museum was OUTSTANDING.  A highlight of our Seattle visit-would come again and again! Very informative. All ---- ice cream bars. Informative!  History! Not enough to justify. A important time in American history and the building of Seattle as a major city. Very. Wonderful to learn about the Klondike Gold rush period. Our time was short, we will return for a longer visit in the future. Spread info on Klondike Gold Rush.  Gained interest to visit! Yes. Shows ---- of an important ---- city. The man at desk was great and answered our questions clearly for a group visit. Understanding area's history. The Gold Rush that happened in Klondike. The process of Gold Rush was significant. History of Seattle explained to natives and foreigners. It signifies one of the most important events in U.S. history. Matches the following of ---- NPS. The history of the Klondike Gold Rush."
36,Voyageurs NP,VOYA,"To let people know the history of the area, the voyagers, the settling of the area and the natural beauty of the park.  Thank you. History of settlers and trading in local area. French Canadian voyageurs fur trappers opened up the national tier of our country. To preserve the beautiful land and to educate it's visitors. It is unique from most of the twenty others we have visited.  I think it is important to keep and treasure. It is our history.  So much America's history has been destroyed it is a wonderful experience to be out in nature that has been protected.  The quietness and the sounds are spiritual and I love them. It's history, the beauty and wildlife protected there. The park is a place where everyone can enjoy natural beauty. If canoes are prohibited on Inland Lakes then that info should be specified on the Internet. Very high. Great place in the North Woods and Lake Country.  Nothing like it in the country. For citizens to explore the natural beauty of our nation. Historical significance of discovery of US; logging; trapping and fishing. I'm very happy it was established. An under-used gem!  One of the great national parks. It is very important to preserve  the natural beauty this area has to offer. This is a beautiful park to enjoy the North Woods scenery.  People are friendly, fishing is fun and the wildlife and views you can't beat. I don't know yet. Beauty and strength of the wild North lands. This park VNP is significant because it gives visitors the experience of a water world like no other. To be a part of the Park, hiking, boating, camping, fishing, photography etc.  Ranger Austin was ""VERY"" helpful, a very nice and knowledgeable man. History of our country, beautiful unspoiled sites. Sheer size, lakeside camping, Bald Eagle population. Very important to history of this nation.  The Voyageurs and their movement of pelts, materials, etc., to other areas of country and world. Wild places ---- great to visit. Instrumental to the fur trade through the inter connected waterways. Beauty, wild life, history. The voyageurs that came from Grand Portage used this park as a highway back when it was important in getting goods across the country.  Today, it is just fun to look at. The unique culture and land and how it has been treated during the years and how the natives worked with nature.  That is why it has to be preserved. It reminds me of the toughness of our forefathers and resourcefulness. The 2 significant things I learned about and are worth preserving is a reminder of some of our French heritage and a nature preserve for beavers, moose, eagles, etc. Will not tell others to go!  Wasted our days!  No boat or charter was too expensive. Only water related national park. Geological significance. Really gorgeous site! Unique flora and fauna, historical, beauty. Voyageurs in the 19th century. Natural beauty and honoring the heritage of voyagers in the past in this region. I was not aware of this park stubble upon it. Historical fur trading/Native American history, geographical study and findings, preservation of plants, animals, land, etc. It's a one-of-a-kind area and deserves national recognition as a park.  So much history here that needs to be shared. It represents the natural state Minnesota would've looked nice every where 300 years ago. Another portion of the North Woods and Lake Country that aught to be protected from natural resource, extraction. Route of Voyagers by canoe. To preserve it's natural beauty, history and wild life. It's a great place for all to come and learn about nature and to help preserve it for future generations. Preserving the Voyageurs waterways as also telling the story of its history. I love that there is this park in northern MN to help preserve and show off the unique wilderness and wildlife that the region has to offer. The beauty.  The nature, the eagles. Preserving the history and ---- ---- ----. It preserves both the natural beauty and the history of the region.  Great visit. Protecting Eagle habitat and other wildlife. This area has been in my family for over 20 years.  I love this park!  It's very important to me! Important to keep the voyageur route safe from commercial development.  Save an area for eagles to nest. The history and preservation of wild lands. The beautiful lakes. Preservation of nature's beauty with historic significance. History. The history of the early explorers, pioneers and native peoples in this area. Showing to our citizens and world citizens that we are good stewards of the nature we are blessed with. Only one with the impact of water and lakes! Combines both history and preservation. One of the very few parks where the history is preserved so well and naturally. The beauty of the park itself, with all the trees, lakes and things to do and enjoy.  Worth the trip!"
37,Navajo NM,NAVA,"To learn about and appreciate the life and culture of the early people who inhabited the area. To learn the history and problems faced by the Native Americans. Maintaining and communicating history. Archeological site. Great history lesson. Very good, but restroom needs air freshening. Hopi history. It was very good. Hopi history. Hopi history. Hopi history. To see Kowestima and learn it's history. Ruins make it. Hopi history. Hopi history. Hopi history. Preserving Native American history so that we can understand the importance of our history and what the Native Americans went through. Preservation of culture. For preserving and learning about native American culture and heritage for all the people. Beauty, respect, spirit. Education, preservation. Culture and history of Anasazi and their relationship to S.W. history. None. To tell about our history. Hopi History. Great insight to their way of living in harsh conditions and adapting to it. The Navajo National Monument displays the Nation's history and focuses on the people who originally lived here and who must not be forgotten. Very good. Historical significance of the first inhabitants. I liked the information about the plants, it's important to hand over this knowledge. Respect for our history and cultures.  Respect for life that was here and the traditions, knowledge of flora and fauna. The history. Beautiful views of nature and cultural side, also learning more about the Indian culture. Bringing people together to learn from one another. They are some of the most significant ruins of the first people here.  Extremely valuable and interesting. Celebrating the people who truly ARE this nation. Learning the history of the Indians very interesting. Keep mature beautiful and respect Navajo living's made. A beautiful exhibit of the native culture. The cultural value as well as the history surrounding the area. The ruins is the national significance. Indian village. The cliff dwelling. I learned a lot about the Navajo cliff people but not why this place was chosen as the Navajo National monument. Before WASP colonization here was already likely populations. Remembering our roots and honoring the ---- inhabitant. Significant due to dry rooted heritage that you're able to visit/witness. Important, ---- ----, ---- ---- celebrate origins and meaningful ----. The Anazazi people. Ancient dwellings, native culture. Great place! Magnificent area, ---- cliff dwellings. Cliff dwelling. Ancient ----. Very good tours to ----. 0 Culture. History. ----. Is very important for the history of the United States. Preserving traces of our roots, where do we come from, our ---- to mother nature. To teach others. The age and ---- well preserved the ----. Cliff dwelling. Great staff and well knowledgeable rangers at VC/tour. Culture history and preservation.  Help children understand ways of life past and recreation. As a ----, very informational, nice to see tradition and culture of our people. ---- park ---- historic (it is part of the history). Past history. Preserve the area.  Share history. The culture is amazing. To showcase native history. It shows the root of one of the native peoples of the land. It is a cultural treasure that is amazing to visit. Cultural history/preservation. Dwelling (well preserved) of an ancient people-part of the nation's history. It is incredibly important due to containing two of the best preserved ancestral ---- ruins in the SW. Preserving Navajo cultural heritage. Good information about the plants. To see the ---- and ---- uses of the land. The preservation of cliff dwelling and heritage. A good place to visit for strangers keep it natural. Thanks for your work. On the history of anasozi, pueblo, and navajo. 1) Ancestral Puebloan lifestyle and dwelling. 2) Navajo lifestyle. 3) Navajo connecting to ancestral puebloan. ---- Houses. Tells us informative about the Navajo which we don't know of. See ways we don't know of. Very beautiful and awesome to see sandal trail. Culture, native people live. Wonderful and a great way to preserve natural history and Native America heritage. Cultural history of Native Americans archeology, beauty of landscape. Unique location, cliff dwellings, and religious to native people. To share the culture and history of native people with future generations to come. Culture heritage preserved here. Native American heritage and history, sacred site to locals. A very nice park that is not well known. It's important to remember how Indian people used to live in this ----.  Young generation have to protect this place. Navajo history. Indian heritage."
38,Fort Scott NHS,FOSC,"It encompasses critical decades in US history and relates to everything from Native Am. settlement to Civil War. The stories of the progress of our nation and the lessons we can learn about life through their stories. History! To preserve Civil War history in eastern Kansas. The history. U.S. history-its beginnings westward-and relocation of Indians-a good and sad part of U.S. history. A good way to see how pre-Civil War soldiers lived. African American History-History of Kansas. It demonstrates what life was like in this part of the country at a moment of hour history. It represents westward expansion. Historical. History. We took our three grandsons so they could see the history of our military and how it's evolved. I am a visitor from abroad, for me it was interesting in general. People were really helpful and knowledgeable! Early Frontier life and history. Need to know our history and what we stand for. A glimpse into a little talked about chapter in a very ----. Great place. Civil War and westward expansion.  Very interesting, thank you for providing this. It's significance to Bleeding Kansas. Fort Scott helps us learn about our nation's history.  It's a beautiful, well preserved site. Highlight the growing pains in a vivid and interesting way. Learning about fort and plains life. The Civil War started partly because of what went on here. The history is passed on, very educational. The park was important part of many events in history. Very important in carrying on American history. Very important for young generations to learn and remember heritage. Bakery. For folks to be educated about past history. History and what help make this country. History of forts built and used for Indian safety and Civil War. It preserves our history as a nation and what we stand for. Keeps history fresh and helps us remember. To learn about history very important for children and adults. Very much needed for both old and young. The history of the park. It was on the fringe of the growing nation; neat to see what a place like that still around. Shares early history as our nation grew westward and the various tensions of the movement. History of the West; Western expansion; Civil War. This park represents several different periods where the military was needed in the West to support the country. History-should never be forgotten. History. The park is a way to remember our nation's history for all ages. History lesson in past events with Indians and wars.  Movement of people toward the west and their protection. History. More Civil War than westward expansion. ---- What it was like on the ""Western Frontier"" in the mid 1800's. To shine light on the soldiers and how Fort Scott was developed around the Old Fort. It was involved the Pre Civil War. The Indian and Border Wars were very significant to the development of KS and MO.  Preservation is important! Frontier national expansion protection of settlers. Civil War. Not real significant, but interesting. U.S. history. It demonstrates the period from early Indian segregation on the westward expansion. Outstanding history of mid- to late-19th century plains life. Sign of white men did to ""protect"" settlers in N. Americas. The importance of this area to westward expansion. We should tell our children about the past so that they learn about it and can be proud of it. The opening of the West. Westward expansion-peace keeping-Civil War depot on Military Road.  Minn.-Ft. Gibson.  Civil War refugee camp as well as hospital was a ""rowdy"" place during bleeding KS era!  Remembering previous generations and what they did and endured. It is part of our Nation's history during the Civil War.  The older generation appreciates it more! Fort Scott was important to the opening of the West, in relations with Native Americans, Civil War, railroads. Helping to open the West for settlement and expansion. Protection of settlers, exploration, help with troops for the Union. Gives early history of pioneering, Mexican War, bleeding Kansas, Civil War. How our early soldiers lived-this is wonderful history of the early life of soldiers. Preserving and reminding the future of the past. Where Kansas stood in the beginning and its part in history. Very important part of our state and national history. Open up the frontier to settlement territories became states from sea to sea or ocean to ocean. Keeps our history alive-so important to future generations. This is a very significant park because of its being part of the ""permanent"" Indian boundary and being on the Civil War's earliest conflicts between Kansans and Missourians. Info on the opening of the west and the Border War. It provides  glimmer of what it was really like during the 1840's and 1850's. Preservation of the Fort and the history surrounding expansion to West (Indian territory) and the Civil War. History. It is very important for the Western Expansion.  These posts were instrumental to the local area. Very nice-USA is great. It's history, I didn't know what Bleeding Kansas meant before. Telling the story of the importance of Kansas in the development of the nation. History. Historical contribution of this park to the Westward movement of US citizens, played key role in Civil War. Further education of the Nation's situation before, during and after the Civil War. I believe the National significance of this Park is its rich history.  I actually learned quite a bit more about Ft. Scott, KS. This park is a great resource for educating on Civil War history in KS/MO.  I'm SO glad it is here!! Great historical information. To learn. Civil war fort. The role the fort was used to protect the railroads and it's interests during the civil war. As a frontier and civil war strategic fort/supply. Many uses! A picture of life of a soldier and significance to westward expansion and Civil War history. It helps us learn about our history! Part of US history-all such parks or items should be protected. Understanding of life of a solider in mid 1800's and the role forts such as these played in US history and westward expansion. Westward expansion military protection, civil war and free state-slavery issues during ""Bleeding Kansas"" years. I did not know Kansas was in the Civil War! Westward expansion. Preservation of culture and history of area. The Jay Hawkers issue-Kansas joined the Union as a ""free"" state and its transitional usage as the East moved West.  Also its efforts to protect Indians.  Beautifully restored and maintained.  Easy access for older visitors. Ft. Scott was an important frontier and Civil War Post-it is important to remember those times and problems. To provide a chance to go back and remember our history. ---- One of the few forts left that gives us a peek into not only history of ""how the West was won,"" but also the shoulders we ""stand on"" and could easily take for granted if it wasn't ""kept alive."" Fort Scott played important roles during the Civil War and particularly in the movement West, protecting the people and trails. Liked the racial videos. Helps understand the growth of a nation. Facility gives new insight into westward expansion of country and Native American issues. To show history of Kansas along with how early days of life on the plains were!  Thanks for making history come alive! Pivotal moment in the development, socially, politically and geographically, of the United States. Fascinating! Historic restoration and education; preservation of heritage; family oriented. HC accessible for most; lived in KS ---- did not know about the permanent forts and the role they played pre/post civil war. History of the West. History."
39,Fort Pulaski NM,FOPU,"The significance of the Amazing Fort Pulaski was when S.C. did not want to be a part of the U.S. pr colonies at the time.  Start Civil War. History! Revolutionary and Civil War history.  The armaments and Fort and weapon reconstructions are superb. The toil and service of those who created, defended, won back and those today that run it for us! This fort had a very important role for U.S. history, Southern history, and the making of America today. I believe that this park is very important to have.  It was great to visit and learn about history. Historical values. Historical-Civil War. The Civil War is the second most important even in American history next to the Revolutionary War. Preservation of history very important. Well preserved fort. Excellent, very significant. Knowing how battles were fought. Give more history on the slave contribution to the war. There were many ""firsts"" that occurred here and should be preserved for posterity. Wonderful part of history of Georgia. Defense, war fare. Shows inefficiency of gov't, but how they sell old technology its still usable. Relic from wars. National history.  Allowed slaves to be free.  I would like more information on slaves. It was nice to walk the time our American history went through. It is a historical monument from the civil war. I was here in 1960 (8 yrs. old) this started my love of Forts. Huge significance. This Fort helped add National security, trained soldiers, and helped make tactical decisions based on the successes and failures. Where history happened. Famous names associated with it.  Use of rifled artillery here.  Underground railroads. Historical background. Strong hold and cannons. History and heritage. Great history. Civil war. Reminds us of our history to keep us from repeating it. Catalysis for freeing of slaves. Shows all the young people what Americans need to go through. Shows architectural houses of the period. History. To provide history of Fort. Yes very interesting. It's cool. Part of the civil war. Bravo! Very!  ""Hands-on"" history is very important to our home school experience. To remember the history of Georgia. Keeping history alive/important. Keep American history alive. Shows the. Historical importance development of our nation. Super. Telling the history of Georgia and civil war. The Fort is a lasting symbol of a war that has shaped our nation to what it is today.  USA forever. Yes. Great place to learn about the civil war. History of Civil War. It/importance of a Civil War Battlefield. To always remind of our history which is important to whom we are! See how we grew as a Nation. I believe the parks significance ---- it's historical value as a turning point of a century and ---- of technology. Very interesting. History. Civil war relevance, cannon history, more on emancipation please. Protection against another rocking of DC, also a turning point one of many in the history of warfare. It's a piece of history and allows it to come to life. Informing the public about the history of this area and about civil war technology. Just great! War history. Very important to the growth of the nation and the south. History. Any location that aides in the battles of our great nation is significant. History. It's our history. Honors the significance of the battle to be 1 U.S., rather than 2 independent nations. I like the history told. Valuable lesson in history. It is very significant, the first time rifling was used. The history of early America. 0 It is one of the best preserved forts, run through it also demonstrated how improving cannon technology made forts like it vulnerable. This park is a great presentation of a Civil War fort and an integral part of a war that shaped this nation. The advancements in FA. Historical. Very significant. History of how we became. History. The eventual development of an island/usable town. To inform us of our history. Hard work and labor still shows what men can do with mortar and brick and the wars this fort has been through. History-from lovely Amber. History. History. Learn the history of our nation. National history. To provide information about important events that helped lay the foundation to where we are today. Yes. Civil War History. It teaches the history of this Nation and the realities many had to face. Reminder history of our Nation. To inform people of a key time in American history. Historic events plus education. It was the first prominent example of the use of ---- ---- to defend a ---- and ----. Very authentic, very significant. Our American history. Remaining an important and pivotal part of our history. Great history of the Civil War. Marked a significant change in weapons technology with the advent of ---- bore artillery. Military significance due to changing technology. National defense and Civil war slaves. End of fort warfare. It is important to understand our nation's military history and how the issue of rifling changed the necessity of ----. Great-love the history of the south. I think it's significant to the ---- is to inform and ---- ---- ----!  ---- what happened in the civil war era. Very interesting, and significant. I think it's significance is showing how people lived in the civil war how the battles went, and how military technology has ended over time. Amazing all. Great for learning more about Americas history. Younger ---- help. It's cool. An amazing architectural feature and ---- fort! Civil war. Everything. History of the confederacy, knowledge and loyalty to our values. The history and engineering behind it. National history. Great place. Part of the historical importance of our nation. Fight for independence. Civil War. Civil War history (enjoyed out visit...) Important events in Civil War history. Very significant for understanding the strategies used in warfare. ---- So many lives were given to defend freedom. Fort ---- is a very important fort in the history of the Civil War. It is actually where union made their stand against Confident rebellion. Cool! Emancipation, the Civil War. The military history of our nation in men and technology. Very significant. ----"
40,Buck Island Reef NM,BUIS,"Preservation. Its one of a kind, please continue to ---- to preserve. Preservation of beauty of reef. Appreciating and learning about the environment, ocean and animals. Very significant. Teroro II. Save the coral. ---- Great ---- To conserve and ---- the coral. Protect the corral and the fish. Protection of coral reef. Coming back from endangered ---- The Marine park was early model of what we now call MPAs. Wonderful place, nicely preserved (thank you JFK). Coral Preservation. Coral preservation. It is very nice and pretty. Protects coral. Protect the coral and turtles don't touch them. Coral reef, wildlife. Meh. It's beauty. Beautiful presentation of nature. The reef is coming back!! It's beauty and possibility of preserving wild life. Most coral I have ever snorkeled. Natural resources. Amazing coral and turtles. Signage on canal reef needs to be fixed up. It's beauty and educational value. Beautiful/untoured island/lovely and clean beach/snorkel trail excellent. To give people and opportunity to enjoy nature but in a facilitated way. Nice. To preserve the reef. Nice. Preserving marine life. Experience with beautiful beach and coral reef. Marine ecology. I have a National Parks Pass and we love our US parks and most parks.  We were fortunate to experience the reefs off Buck Island during our snorkeling tour.  Recommend Tommy and crew working the mooring of 13 March 2016.  Very educational, environmentally and safety conscious.  Were VERY ---- that we received value for our money. Coral reefs and marine habitats. To save the coral reefs and fish. To help fishing industry of St Croix. To save different species of fish. Amazing coral saw a baracade and lots of ocean species. Beautiful friendly and accommodating. Nature and history. Preservation. Preserve coral (Elkhorn) and protect natural inhabitants. To protect coral and animals. Underwater beauty. Yes. Hist. National monument, dedicated by JFK. ---- Commitment to protect the ----. Must preserve protect. Protect the coral, fish, turtles. Great preservation spot. Protect wild life. It is extremely important and urgent to protect coral ----. One of the only of it's kind. We must protect the corals and the turtles. Location ---- sites. Protect turtles. The biodiversity of the plants and animals here. Yes, great reef. We had more fun then any other trip for snorkeling ever the best we WILL be back. Buck Island was the greatest. Nature. Beautiful Coral and creatures, nice people and awesome view. Preservation of resources. Awesome the great est ---- water. To protect the coral reef. Beautiful coral reefs and unique ocean creatures. Protecting marine wildlife. Reef. Fun. Beauty. Nature and preservation. Keeping the ---- coral reefs ----. The monument protects a complete coral reef ecosystem! Preservation of coastal regions and aquatic life. Coral Reef preservations/bio diversity importance ---- nature preserving the natural beauty of the island. I think it is a very important monument to American history and a visually stunning natural beauty all people should see. Great conversation. Ecological significance is invaluable. Maintaining wilderness heritage of U.S. Protecting the reef. Preserve original beauty and ---- shore line. The tropical wildlife. Beach, water, trails. Great example of a underwater monument. Excellent under water flora/fauna. Protection of coral and marine life. Corals and reef and fish. Beautiful preservation for marine life. Very fun. It's very historical and beautiful. Learn about the ocean and ocean life. Marine life. So fun! Very beautiful place. It was awesome! I am bummed that I am burned but I am a white girl, so I deserve. Reef! Reef! It's beautiful and home to much wildlife. The wildlife, road reefs and pristine quality of the island. Fun. It shows our nations collective concern for the preservation of ---- valuable beauty in nature. Snorkeling. So fun! Very fun!!! Beautiful untouched natural ---- had to see it protected and that we are able to enjoy. The color, beauty, natural wild life. Excellent, only underwater park. We took a taxi to Christiansted to snorkel at Buck Island.  Great time-great guides! Protects a coral reef-rare in America.  Opportunity to see wildlife we don't see at home. The staff at Big Beards Captain Michael and ---- were awesome.  Explained the coral and how to respect it, preserve it and not kill or damage it. Beautiful corals. The staff at Big Beard's, Captain Michael and Gabe were very knowledgeable about keeping the area preserved and advised us to do so as well. Area for protecting and rehabilitating coral, protection of wildlife. Important coral reef eco system/Caribbean vegetation zone, both with educational opportunities. It's significant in preserving nature and to educate people on the importance of taking care of our environment. Wildlife. Extremely important preservation of a coral reef. The ref. This park offers a unique experience for anyone at any age. To educate and preserve the natural resource. Very significant.  Very well done. Marine environment unique to U.S. A beautiful National gem. The coral and ocean life and the turtle area and the beautiful beaches. 1st under water park of it's kind, I believe I fear it's being love I to ---- but if it keeps lesser known areas in ---- ---- it serves a good purpose."
41,Boston NHP,BOST,"Some of the facts-especially about the battle-could have been done with extra qualification/information.  Overall, a good experience. Bunker Hill. Remembrance of most significant early revolutionary war battles where Americans fought and died for Independence from Great Britain. Historical ----. To preserve our past and apply it to the future. Bunker Hill was what made Colonists believe they can be Americans. I want to say that Jayne Triber is the BEST park ranger/history tour guide I have ever experienced!  She should be hired full-time to give historical tours in the Boston area. To remind us of what it was like to gain our liberty and freedom. It is significant to our national history. Key moment in journey to ---- independence. Our heart ---- ---- freedom is not free. It is a symbol of America fighting your ---- ----. History needs to be remembered. Revolutionary ---- ---- ----.  Loved ---- ---- ----. It's cool to see where ---- began. Preserving ---- ----. Preserve history. Huge! It rocks!  A real time exploration of the foundations of the American Revolution. It holds a unique history and valuable insight into the past of Boston and the U.S. in general. Signifies birth of our nation. Learn about American history. This park helps people acknowledge the fight for our freedom. History of the USA. The foundation of the U.S. independence started here. The significance of the park is to engage young minds-allow them to learn the significance of history and the preservation of such things. History. Too many to mention. It teaches about the birthplace of the revolution. Historical significance and understanding of the United States and what makes America unique and FREE.  Too bad for today's political environment. Great historical value. Historical, cultural. Keep the history of the fight for liberty alive so we can preserve and strengthen it for future generations. Further understand the efforts of the patriots in defending American colonies against British. The fight for liberty over centuries. The NPS helps remind us that we are all stewards of our Country's sites and history.  History is living and NPS helps keep us excited about it! Origins of our national history., The foundation of our freedoms was established in Boston!  thank you for keeping this going! It's important to history. History of Boston and importance of ----. Highly significant and ---- of our Country. This site in Boston reflects our nations trail to independence. Speak up, participate, and you can create change.  So the present can learn from the past. Immense. Historically very informative. History and ----. It is very ----. It's a ----. Exploring the history ---- early history of America. America. Historic Colonial America. The founding of the USA. First battle between British and American colonists of the Revolutionary War. Represents freedom. The rebellion that started a new republican nation.  The Charlestown Navy Yard significance. Boston: birth place of the movements in the colonies for independence.  Quincy: birth places and homes of 2 presidents. Same. History and stuff. Maintained our freedom. Very history. The freedom trail is the start of America's freedom. It is an important reminder of what it took to create this country.  Future generations need to be reminded of the significance of history. To interpret the history of the Navy and the Navy ----. American history. The ----. Freedom. Liberty, freedom. Navy museum. It is where America started, great walking historical tour. To preserve history and ---- ---- Absolutely!!  I love the National Park Service. History of America. History-every American needs to know how much work it took to make our nation the greatest. Preserve history and educate. Without the people and events here in Boston there wouldn't be a USA or a National Park service! It shows U.S. history for the navy. Yes. History of U.S. military. Excellent to look back to what it was like on a destroyer in WWII. Importance to many and defense. Very importance, defense, volunteering, history of wars. Bunker Hill, U.S. navy. It's our naval heritage and the battle which would set the pace for the war of attrition aka; the American revolution. Love Bunker Hill museum, missed the free tour for the Freedom Trail. Naval history.  USS Young navy more interesting than U.S. constitution!! Learn about WWII. It reminds us of where we came from what we fought for and how much we sacrificed for identity. It's superior. Preserving a great piece of American history. A view of history. It was the site of a battle which had repercussions on the outcome of the American revolution. It's good to have there as reminder of what our country was built on and those who gave their lives for it. To show future generations where we come from ----. To educate the public re: Boston's rich history. The national significance would be that it is a piece of history that preserved and protected. Historical significance to the founding of our Country. To show us our cultural heritage. It is important to remember the early years of the revolution, as they shaped it. Part of the journey to independence from England. Important to learn about historical context of Battle of Bunker Hill. The battles fought here to ensure the nations future. It is important to conserve this park for future generations to learn about history. Part of America's worth."
42,Effigy Mounds NM,EFMO,"Don't know because they were too busy talking to each other to tell us. Three rangers at the center and no one made us feel welcome. Viewing of ancient burial grounds. Important to history. Reminder that we were not the first people here. Teaching about the lives of the Native Americans.  Living in harmony with nature. History of the early people-preservation of history is very important! American heritage. Effigies, beautiful nature and trails. First Nation history. Heritage. Historical preservation-memories of Native peoples. Native American history-vital component to our development.  Rich history of past cultures. Preserving Native culture, education about Native culture and spirituality. Understanding culture of early inhabitants of our country. History. Native American history is significant to the nation, as is the Mississippi. Historical and cultural value of the native peoples. It preserves an important aspect of Native American history. Native American and ancient peoples history, culture, life style.  From where we came. Native American history and culture and sacred places. History of native Americans is our history, value nature. Very important. Great wish there were more info out there. It's history of the native American peoples. Maintaining pre European history. Archeological features. Cultural heritage of first nation. Preservation of ancient times. Preserving and respecting native Americans. The history of our nation is the history of all peoples/civilizations that have lived here over time.  We will seek out more mounds facilities. To keep the mounds and keep them sacred. A greater understanding of the mound and Indians. Great monuments like the ""mounds"" should be protected and preserved at any cost.  Thank you! Preserving a vital part of our nations history!  This park showcases the cultural impact of cultures no longer with us. The mounds. Our pro European past. A reminder of those before. Burial grounds. Preservation and education about cultural heritage. Our history. No one is creating mounds these days. It is great to keep the history going. Our native American heritage. We need them. Very helpful rangers. Celebrating the heritage and learning about another culture and time. Cultural history. Excellent for Native American heritage. Extraordinary assemblage of remarkable effigy mound, centuries old. History of Indian burial. Importance to native Americans. It is very important to preserve and teach people about the Mound.  Building cultures.  Also, a place lit this, by the Mississippi is a unique opportunity to experience the ----. Preserved burial mounds. Preserves our history. The value is in the history.  that is being preserved for generations. This continent has been inhabited longer than most of us are aware. To learn about the indigenous peoples of the area. To learn about the prehistoric remains and cultures about the Indians of the region. Very significant.  It teaches about the historical cultures of the area and what was here before we took over. We seen young and old on the trail, I would say it is important to all age groups. Beautiful mounds. Cultural ties with native Americans. Heritage. It's one of a kind.  We cannot create another.  Thank you greatly. Native American significance a holy place. People lived in harmony with nature not exploiting it. Rangers were great to children completing Jr. ranger program. The native American history. To respect and see/learn about native American culture and come to appreciate it. To show some history and preserve what was here. Learning about Indian mounds, native plants and animals. The history of the land we live on. Cultural heritage. Conserving our history. Important. Good historical identities of various previous inhabitants. Very fun and beautiful. Very significant and to protect and conserve the land. History of Native Americans and what settlers discovered. Honor and respect Native American culture and traditions. A very good connection to the past of our area. In touch with nature. Information about the past history of the people before us! Indian mound historical records. History. Very important to our history. Very significant-so glad to learn about the past. Protection and public viewing/showing of the Effigy Mounds. Very important. This is a wonderful place.  There is so much to learn. A link to our country's origins as it was inhabited by Native Americans. Mounds. The Indian mounds. Highlights Native American culture. Native American history. Yes. Sacred traditions. I think it's important for us to understand as much as we can about the people who came before us-the mound builders are a significant part of U.S. history and human history. To preserve Indian burial grounds. Preserving history. History of Mounds. To preserve the history of the Native people. A glimpse into the culture and history of the Native people of the upper Midwest and their livelihoods. As a memorial to those that lived here before us. Being aware of other cultures that were here before us, keeping that alive and protected. Creating a tribute/fostering the sacred preservation of people who lived here before me. Cultural and historical significance as well as biodiversity and appreciation of nature. Education about the history of the area. Huge-very important. Native American heritage. Of great cultural value to all Americans and visitors from abroad. Our history is being preserved. Preservation of cultures of the past very important. Preserving history (unknown/studied) in our area. Protection and preservation of Mounds. Teaching history, culture. This is our history-excellent significance. To preserve important Native culture and artifacts. To remember our history and its ---- to the state as a destination point. To understand the native people who walked before us and to preserve their heritage. Very, very important. Yes. Preservation of Native American history. A blend of interesting geographical, geological, cultural history, plus unique wildlife. Its history and preservation of nature. Mounds. Native American history and preservation. Sacred places to reflect. Saving the area from development. To preserve history. Very significant.  Natives had many lives lost in the area should and should have been respected. It has great history. Preserving native American history. Unique historic land mark. History enrichment. To preserve the mounds so that others may enjoy years from now. Native American history. Historical. History. Preserving surrounding eco systems and wild life and important national history. Archeology, history, pre history, preservation. History of the mounds and the preservation of the land. It is very important to understand how the world we live in came to be.  We can only truly appreciate the present when we understand the past. Learning about heritage of native Americans. Pre history is so important. Preservation of history. Preserving early peoples culture. Preserving native history. Retaining native American history. Our history, where it all started native Americans, we need to know and remember. Preserve history. The history in the stories that the mounds tell. Preserve these Indian Mounds. High! Our relation to Native peoples. History. Cultural. Retain a respect and value of nature.  Learn about the cultures in the area that preceded ours. To understand and honor Native Americans. History of indigenous people. Learning about the prehistoric peoples of the area. Connecting often overlooked history with our present to act for the future. Irreplaceable.  Essential to our history.  We so often forget that our land was peopled before Europeans. Native American history. Preservation of Indian culture and traditions. Preserving the remains of ancient civilizations. Reminds of our connection to other peoples and the rivers. The Mounds. Preservation of driftless area. Very important to preserve Native lands. The Indian Mounds and the history of the Native Americans from the land. It's pretty important because of the primitive people before us built the Mounds. History of the nation and past inhabitants. Grown as each generation visits. To preserve history. I'm part N.A., so I love learning more about their culture and history! Preservation of Indian artifacts and importance of its rich history. Honors those who walked these lands before us.  Reminds us that there were cultures and people here before us. Very important, people should learn their past. We need to help maintain for future generations! To know what once lived before us! Small in size; huge in mission. Very important to respect those who come before us.  Especially after forcibly removing them. I think it is very important that parks honoring Native American culture be located in as many regions as possible-not just in the Southwest. Preservation and presentation of prehistoric ""American"" cultures and artifacts. History and American culture. History to share with children. Sacred burial grounds' religious importance to our Native Americans' American history and culture. Pursues Native Americans' past. Forgone history. History of the area. History-learning from past and cultures.  Living with nature. Incredible prehistoric site. Learning more about Native American culture to preserve its history. Native Indian history and culture. Preservation of history and understanding of it. Preserve the sacred ground of a Native American people. Preserving and interpreting Native American culture. Preserving driftless wilderness and American Indian cultural significance. Protecting history and culture. The history and beauty. This park is a great tangible, historic site of a culture that is not often visible. To know where we came from. To respect and honor Native Americans and educate people about nature and culture. Very high!  We need to protect and preserve our land's history. The river valleys and the ancient effigy mounds.  A gorgeous area. Maintaining important cultural heritage for an integral population in America. Preservation of our past. Preserve Indian history and therefore our history. Priceless.  Wish more there were more NPs in Iowa. The Indian ancient cultural mounds and the big Mississippi River. Very important in preserving our past. Very important. I find it culturally significant and interesting, but the kids lost their attention.  I think if there were bike trails in north unit, it would help. It provides a reminder of our country's historic Native American culture. To educate visitors about the cultural and historic aspects of the Mounds and surrounding area. Respecting/preserving Native American culture. Preservation of cultural heritage, preservation of accessibility to the river and all that it offers. Learn history. Historic origins of Mounds. Cultural uniqueness, historical. Protection of Indian Mound and education of public about Mounds and Indian culture. Important recognition of a unique part of our heritage. Education and preservation. Heritage of founding people preserved and passed on to future generations. Mostly cultural and historical significance, but also natural significance. It's super important to preserve historical archeological remains. To educate people, and to increase respect and appreciation for nature and our national history. History and publishing of the country-Native peoples.  Important to build awareness of the past. Preserving Native American history, and educating people about that history. That we need to respect the earth and protect it. To keep the history and spirit of the Native Americans and the past alive and not forgotten. To preserve the culture of generations before us.  To increase the love of the outdoors and nature. Excellent preservation of Mounds and protection of them.  Educational opportunities of ancient cultures. Heritage of Native people. Preserving Native American traditions and sharing them. Definitely. It is important to preserve and promote our earliest peoples' heritage. It is important to remember and preserve these ancient mounds. Ancient historical value. To make people aware of burial mounds. Incalculable. I't svery cool seeing our history that lies in this place. I believe that this park is a very good learning experience for people of all ages. History. The Indian burial grounds. Culture of local tribes. Excellent education/reminder of this areas history. American history. This country was not founded by European settlers, it was occupied from the East to West coast by indigenous peoples, it is very important to educate about this truth. To see the amazing things my ancestors did. I believe that the mounds are a huge significance to the park. It is a connection to the early Native people whose history is often erased. Mounds-ancient history. Native American history. Native American history. Preserve mounds. The history of the natives that populated this area and their values which is what we seek today.  Community effort. The overlook to the river and the Mounds. Continued efforts to connect with the first people. Preserving native lands. Protecting the pre United States history! The burial mounds, culture and expansive history of this area make this park a valuable national resource. Protect the mounds and tell about Indian culture to those mounds. I am not from the USA, but this kind of national monument helps to preserve valuable insight to the history of this big country and this contribute the richness of American identity. Early knowledge of nations development. Honoring our ancestors and native people to the lands.  Also, maintaining these sacred grounds for continued worship and celebration. I think that this area has a massive significance to the history of the native Americans who lived here before the USA began. Important native American history and cultural area; also, geology."
43,San Juan NHS,SAJU,"Helps generations understand the history of our land older than the USA. A key element in the period of colonization. I don't speak English.  I am sorry. [SPANISH] Very important as it provides historical data and helps all to know the race of the ---- country. Very educational. History of ----. Great history. Excellent for education. ---- ----. For us it is our heritage, our race. Fantastic history. Great history or the locale. My culture and its history. 0 Best I've visited. Great importance.  Continue ---- the importance ----. History. History.  Forts-protection. Information. Ranger talk very informative friendly and helpful. Tremendous historical opportunity. Very ---- as it ---- ---- ----. Great history, knowledge. It's part of the ---- and Puerto Rico ---- ----. It reminds people of what came before and how the culture was established. To show PR is an important part of American history. Historical. I will write an essay about it. Historical heritage. Many, because it's related to the history of the country. Unique historical site of our Spanish roots. To capture a piece of history and the beautiful views.  Enjoyed the plaza and walkways. ---- 0 Excellent ---- history. Great nationa importance ---- ---- ---- our ancestors. Amazingly educational. In a historical sense, a lot! Preservation of history. This park was organizing the defense of the country during ----. Important ---- history. I don't know, I'm sorry. Puerto Rico Fort-great historical significance. I am from Puerto Rico and it is my culture. Preservation. Nature sights and historical meanings. History for generations to come. History of it. Of true historical significance. Main history of the Americas. Yes!  Living history. In my opinion its relevance to history and education. To protect ---- from ----. Great part of our history. Historically important. Informative, point of view of ----. The natural significance of this ---- is the culture it gives to everyone around the world. As long as the history ----. Very important.  it is ---- historical location on mi island. Importance worldwide. ---- It's a military marvel of its time and a fortress that served many roles throughout history. Its importance to the new world. Preserve the walls of history. Significance during several wars. About the Spanish and how they conquered. Everything good and beautiful.  Love San Juan, PR. Heritage ----. Historical perspective. Historical value. Historical. History. Huge. I love it. Important history and culture. Important history. It is historical. It is very important and very educational for the children and adults. It is very important for the tourists and the Puerta Rican people. Mantenea ---- Recognition of the structured it's facilities and historical significance. Recreation. Unity. Survival. Loyalty. ---- Very important piece of history I want my whole family to come someday. We love it!  Very well preserved. [SPANISH] Very nice, organized.  It is a pride for Puerto Pico. Historical/cultural. ---- [SPANISH] Data history ---- beautiful island PR and goes back to that historic time. It was important in the defense of Puerto Rico and represents its history. History, preservation. History. To represent military strength during more primitive years. [SPANISH] An immense historical value for tourists in Puerto Rico. Sea location and port for early sailors (history). This park is great.  Its purpose and ---- are above par. To provide information on the history of San Juan to people around the world that would otherwise no nothing about this amazing fort. The structure is way sturdy and well maintained.  Beautiful views of the ---- and the ocean!  Staff is quite informative and helpful. The military significance the cultural experience with ----. Want to see more stories of soldiers that lived here. Historical importance. It represents the culture of Puerto Rico which is important and not lose. Educational opportunity. How they protected trade routes. History. It's history. Wonderful history.  Very informative. It gives me and my children to learn the history of Puerto Rico.  Although the live in the ----. The fight for justice. Good ----. Protecting the Caribbean and Panama Canal. History of the ----. It's a great glimpse into the effects of Colonialism. Very significant. Shows ---- ---- ---- ----. Rich history and physical interest, beauty. History of what makes Puerto Rico an amazing place.  As well as what we stand for and fight for. Very important.  I was aware but not quite so much ---- passenger. So many people serviced here. To understand why ---- was so important to ---- countries and the Spanish ----. Guard Panama Canal. To learn about history. It is a site of great historical significance. Very very nice. History. Information is good. My family is from Puerto Rick and learning the significance is great.  The significance is part of American history. History of Puerto Rico. Amazing piece of history.  So glad we were able to see it. For protection. Primary source of security. The U. S.'s role in imperialization, the history of P. R.. To teach history of the fort. Its significance to the nation. Understand the suffering of past generations to build a nation. Amazing history-cannot forget the lives of soldiers from the ---- that protected their people and nation. Awesome history. Very important. Historic info about San Juan. Everything was awesome.  Learned a lot today.  Happy birthday to me!  Thank you. Caribbean and the ---- ----. It was in such a significant location and played a big role in the battle for different lands during the original era of European colonialism. Super!  Best place to go. The height. To teach visitors how it impacted history of the fort ---- ---- itself. View. Historical place. It's proof of a history and culture of the island. Helps tourists to know more about the culture of the country. ---- ---- ----. Very illustrative and ---- history.  Very interesting. All. Beautiful, miss my island-34 years since coming.  I come from Philadelphia, PA. For me it's important, is part of the history of the country.  It's important to conserve for future generations to know our history. Interesting. It is the cultural heritage of all us Puerto Ricans. Rich history of an under represented culture. Historical relevance. *More Rangers for ----. It's world relevance. To inform the people and ---- stay here. It's military history. Understanding of the importance of freedom and ability of what was created without machinery.  Beauty of architecture. Saved San Juan. Critical to understanding the history of Puerto Rico and the ---- and to the relationship of P.R. to the U.S. Beauty and significant ----. It shares the significant history of Puerto Rico the U.S. and the rest of the Caribbean area. History. Important.  It's the cultural heritage. The cultural --- ----. Important cultural and central ----. Park more important to us, ----."
44,Andrew Johnson NHS,ANJO,"Andrew Johnson-taught me about his life and his presidency and difficulties he faced in his life and during his presidency. Provides clarity about time of complex issues and actions of US leadership. Home of Andrew Johnson and his history of beginnings to president. The history and significance of A.J. and his life in Greenville. Celebration of a president. Celebration of a president. Better understanding of a ---- leader. Reconstruction is major part of history and President significant for that and how he became Pres. Because it was Andrew Johnson's home. He was a president of the United States who made great strides to reunite the union. Andrew Johnson - 17th president, modest life style, home, original furniture and family belongings, great tour. Preserves our history. History of our 17th president. Johnson was the 17th president and grew from being a tailor to a president. Andrew Johnson stood up for what he believed in and upheld our constitution.  Reconstruction was difficult for him. Johnson being the 17th president of US. Protecting a ---- of time in A. Johnson life that was vital to the country.  We still owe him a debt of gratitude. The story of a common man upholding the constitution. This park is significant because Lincoln and Johnson were the real crusaders of the civil rights movement. To tell about a President we know nothing about. Andrew Johnson was our 17th President, not taken out of office/Democrat. Education about our nations history. Home of former US President. Interesting president I knew nothing about.  I want to know more. Johnson was the 17th president. Johnson went from tailor to President. This is a wonderful presentation of a nations history! Presidential history; was history; military history. Unknown president.  Interesting story! A true constitutionalist!  We need him today! How a man with no education became president. Misunderstand presidency-learned a lot! Historic telling of our 17th presidents and the nuances of his presidency. Yes, it is significant. Not much known about Pres. Johnson!  Enjoyed learning about his story. Thank you!  So glad to learn what I did. I wish he was our president now!  Wonderful story of a self-made man! ""From Tribe to President""-A very uplifting story! Andrew Johnson's life. Defender of the Constitution!!!  We need Johnson today!!! He was for the Constitution!  I learned a good bit! To share a pivotal presidential story/Lincoln's VP. It tells the story of a man and a time in US history.  This needs to be better understood. Education/respective of reconstruction and direction/impact of character/conviction of President who presided. Amazing overview of A. Johnson!  Came upon by chance and was great site! Sharing about the Andrew Johnson era with future generations. Lincoln's vice-president. Important marker for an under-appreciated but very important leader of the U.S.. Andrew Johnson and what he faced in part during his tenure as president. The American constitution WAS upheld-in time.  Congress, however, continues in 2016 to be evil. To commemorate the life and achievements of the seventeenth president of the U.S., Andrew Johnson, and preserve his homestead. Very significant to history of country. Being a tailor, then president, from this area.  The extent of Johnson's political career. We were able to learn about a very controversial president from our own state. All the way from tailor to president.  Neat story. Historical. Preserving history of our nation for future generations. Informs on of personal and political life of former President.  Learned a lot about Johnson, despite being fairly well versed in history.  Significant in terms of Constitution. 0 Better understanding of President Andrew Johnson. Andrew Johnson was a U.S. President with a very rich story, serving as President during reconstruction and being the first President to face impeachment. Learning the history of President Andrew Johnson.  His RESPECT FOR OUR CONSTITUTION. History I was not aware of. Very informative.  My son participated in his 16th Jr. Ranger Program here.  I greatly enjoyed it too. Very informative.  Great tours and Ranger was very knowledgeable. Preservation of an important part of this nation's history.  Excellent tour of homes.  Excellent lesson in that time period.  Very interesting details that make history come alive for children. Honoring President Johnson and showing his humble beginnings is important.  His life is an inspiration to us today. It is the home of a former president. Learn history. Pro union politicians in the south during the civil war is a little told story.  This park tells the story of eastern Tenn. Seeing where one of our Presidents lived and how he rose to his position. President and his relationship to the USA. Andrew Johnson is one of the forgotten Presidents.  It was a delight to discover his path to the oval office and his firm beliefs. This is a good way to learn about one of our past presidents and how things were in his time. Commemorating for 17th president-his history, expansion and significance to our nations history. Honoring the 17th president, who helped to reconstruct the nation after the civil war. Presidents home (history). To educate folks about the President of the U.S.-most people know little about him. I think it is very valuable to understand our Presidents.  I loved how this Park taught about Johnson before, during and after his term. Enjoyed learning about 17th President who does not receive much space in history books.  Family history is ---- excellent and emancipation of the slaves. The history of our country and the history of our presidents should be told together. Telling the story of a man who had very difficult task of rebuilding after Civil War.  Did what he thought was right according to the constitution. History to Country and to our State. It represents major history in our country when we were facing a severe crisis.  We need to keep things like this open for all future. The history is important and perfect opportunity for people to actually learn it in real life. To teach and preserve our country's heritage. Andrew Johnson's home-fascinating story about the change of societal values. Always important to remember the life of national leaders, the influence they had, and the experiences that affected their beliefs. Andrew Johnson's contributions to the success of the nation after reconstruction. Good for the knowledge of A. Johnson. Very important to our history. Because President Johnson was raised in Greenville. Very significant. I loved how much information was provided on President Andrew Johnson. It's nice to see the origin of leaders. It has great learning for all ages. Rags to riches story-tailor that became our 17th president. Historical significance. History of the president of the U.S.A. is significant.  So very important. It's the home and information about a president. Preserve presidential history. To teach everyone, young and old, about President Andrew Johnson and the time in which he lived. Part of history.  Andrew Johnson had a hard job in history. The rangers were outstanding in the presentation and knowledge. Johnson was an important if ---- figure.  I thought the park was too apologetic about his record. Importance of Presidential history. Understanding history of Presidents. Very informative; well maintained; Ranger Chris led a wonderful tour. We remember President Andrew Johnson also President Lincoln, and reconstruction. Learning the history of Pres. Andrew Johnson. The history of Andrew Johnson and his protection of the Union and Constitution. To see A Johnson's home, learn about his family, and learn about his presidency. Historical info. Great rags-to-riches story!  ---- presidential story.  Learned a lot! We need to remember our history to guide our future as a nation. Preserving history of a milestone era in the life of the USA.  This site is important for our joint heritage as US citizens. To provide instruction of history. An insight into an important time in our history. Because he was president and every president should have a park.  Excellent facilities! Reminder of history. I believe it is of great significance because of the amount of wonderful history here. It's amazing to see places of significance to our country look ----. To keep the past alive. To learn about old history. It is the home of the 7th president of the United States and a beautiful century. That people remember how difficult it was for the country to reunify after the Civil War. We need to be knowledgeable about our history! We have learned about Lincoln's assination, but not too much about the after math of it.  I learned about some of the physical destruction in the South, who knew a Republican and Democrat ran together?! Gave light to a somewhat ""forgotten"" President. It is a vital part of ---- history that ---- be ---- ---- gotten to see. President's home. It was very valuable learning about our reconstruction president. This park.  Andrew Johnson is very important because the classroom history does not present all the facts.  Little is known about him. The history of Andrew Johnson. History of Andrew Johnson. To present history in a true depiction and clarity. It is a piece of history. To honor our nation's seventeenth president. Important time in our history. It is so important to have all of our presidents home open for all to see and visit and learn about their lives and the times they lived in.  We can learn from the past. It is important for younger generations to continue to learn about the after math of the civil war and the constitution. Andrew Johnson was one of the only 43 men to be commander in chief and leader of the greatest nation that deserves to be commemorated. Protect the house of the 17th President and learn about the life of Andrew ----. Awareness of A. Johnson's legacy! As a former president, we need to know all we can about his life before, during and after his presidency. Captures life and history of 17th president. Information on Pres. Johnson and his family. History of our past presidents. Such an important time in U.S. history.  I loved learning about what happened after Lincoln's presidency.  Civil War. The history of the 17th President of the United States. Andrew Johnson was one of our presidents.  It is important to learn his life and history to better understand U.S. history. To preserve the history of Andrew Johnson and his family and their significance in the civil war etc. Political significance of Andrew Johnson's presidency.  Challenges facing a post civil war America. The history of rebuilding America post civil war.  Andrew Johnson's role in it. To preserve Andrew Johnson's legacy, to show the historical significance of his political ---- to our nations success."
45,Grant-Kohrs Ranch NHS,GRKO,"Preserving the history of cattle ranching in the area. Very significant! Free range cattle ranching life. Early history of the west, how it was settled, etc. History and nature-antique farm equipment. Cowboy history really great! Shows the American West before it changed. Coffee shop/gifts/bakery. Providing beef for the country. Represents an era gone by. The history needs to be shared so generations to come understand what has happened. Wonderful opportunity to learn history of cattle changing. Ranch life in Old Montana. We need to of ---- past and the influence the past (we) have. Telling about ranching and farming in late 1800's and early 1900's. Very significant.  Preserves important era in American History. Preserves American Ranching Story. Open Range Cattle Era and Ranching History. Love the history of ranching. Great educational facility grand kids were actually interested in this place. Ranching history. To pressure the pass for the future.  What a great park! The history of the west. Cattle Baron responding to Eastern Beef Demand supported by ---- system to Chicago meat packers, technology of Bison slide ---- and imported immigration supported bulk ---- - ""beef for the East"". Our history way of life. History, learning about agriculture. Westward expansion of US-a significant historical time period/cultural impact. Historical, educational. Conserving the life of ""real"" cowboys and the women's life on a huge ranch. History of the west and how it was settled as well as the importance of natural resources. Cattle. Preserve the history of cattle ranching. It to ---- ---- the way. Very nice facility.  You do a great job with large groups thank you. Historical. Incredible part of our past so important to understand where we come from. To teach everyone how we lived years ago. To teach history of the area. Valuable learning resource. History of the area. 1. History of cattle industry.  2. International contribution of farming American business. It is where food comes from with the use of public lands for public consumption. Ranch. Very educational!  It was so much fun!  The rangers are awesome! Very important historically. Western heritage. Show Western life style-heritage. Telling the story of Westward expansion and ingenuity of Americans and immigrants. Historic methods of Cattle and Ranching.  History of Ranching. The house and original bldgs. Very high. We learned a lot. High value experience. History of ranking. Outstanding-VERY significant! Open Range Cattle Era. It shows what our fore fathers life was like before all of the modern conveniences. This was a grand day!  Loved the personal tours. We need to remember our history. History of Montana and town of Deer Lodge.  Helps with tourism to small town. History. Very interesting and informative. Preserving/education about the history of Ranching in our Country. To teach about the way of life for the Ranchers. This is a great opportunity to learn the history of the largest Ranch in the West. Western Ranching History. History of Cattle Movement. It was fabulous. It is a good example of late 18th Century living on a cattle ranch. Ranching history in Montana. It Shows the West! Puts our lives in perspective-what it took to get where we are today...future? Very great, as it captures history of open range, grazing and early ranching. To preserve the history of Cattle Ranching in the U.S. Cattle Ranches and the impact on the economy. Fascinating to learn about history of a real ranch.  Recreationally it wasn't appreciable ----. History of the West and specifically the significance of this history. Preserving the history and culture of the ----. 1800's business ---- with cattle ranching. Historical importance. Very good. Heal life as lived in the past demon ---- quite well-educational. History. Yes, great significance to demonstrate an area of history, culture. History and natural habitat. Tells the story of open range cattle.  Also the history of a few prosperous ranchers/families. Traditional ranching operation. The history of. Of tremendous value in preserving the qualities of ----, perseverance and ---- in US history. The rural life early years of frontier and settlement-hard life. Learning history of our farmers. Seeing the original status of the house, junk houses, etc. History of ranching. Preserve cultural heritage (farming). Historical significance of cattle and Montana ranching. Original ranch-cowboy information. This farm allowed one to see how life used to be. We are ranchers and love seeing agriculture and historical sites. See how people use to use the land, and how they lived, so different from today. Very significant-nothing else quite like it. Historical significance. The family and cattle business. History of cattle farming/ranches in Montana. History of Montana. Yes, definitely. Cowboy history.  Blacksmith!!!   Western culture.  Amazing preservation and amount of items. History, national appreciation, education and now-conservation and climate concerns. Provide history/insight into other generations about ranching. To enlighten visitors on the history of this establishment. Great all kids should go through this. History of the cattle industry ---- Remembering the past. Provides a glimpse into ranching history and tradition. Represents a great era.  Needs more cowboy demos. History of working ranch activities from past. Preserve history of ranching development in MT. Understanding Western culture 1800's. Great slice of history!  Learned much. It preserves the history of the open range and it's evolution. Open range/cowboy culture. Learning. Historical-ranching as it used to be. Important part of U.S. history. Very important to protect the heritage, keep going on. To preserve our history of the West.  People were happy and productive without cell phones! The history of the American West-the value of immigration. The history of cattle ranching. Commemorates open range era of the West. To preserve the era of huge cattle ranches and open range grazing. Our US history great! History. To preserve history of the ranching industry. Very important to understanding history and life. Keep memories of old days alive. The preservation of history for others to enjoy. To reflect the unique history of ranching and this area. Very educational. Very informative.  Needs to definitely be continued for future generations. Agricultural Heritage. To allow the people to see the West as it was in the past. Very:  learned so much about the Old West. Great history well presented. All the different people that made up the growth of the U.S.  How Americans made different environments work. Experience how the real West was and happy to have had an opportunity to experience a small slice of Cowboy life. The park is dedicated to ranching history, and it contains an absolutely wonderful display of transportation throughout the mid 1800's to mid 1900's.  Stunning! Significant especially in this part of the USA-ranging is important. Appreciate state history/successful people. Historical significance of this large, successful ranch.  Unused to have all the ---- and ranch ---- in tact.  A chance to experience lifestyle of the ----. Our heritage in area. Great history learning about pioneer time. How people lived in the late 1800's. Preserve western heritage and history. Very important. It portrayed ctr ranching era very well. The open cattle range era-buildings, cattle, ranch house, records. Open range cattle ranch significance. Excellent example of early cow operations. Historical value and cultural significance-knowing what it was like helps you see how things have developed and work has changed. The opportunity to see a real ranch is very valuable to me because I am from Wisconsin.  The only ranches we see are on TV. History. Chance to see what early ranch life was like. It preserves the way of life and culture of an important part of U.S. history. To the cattle industry, this ranch was important.  Therefore, there is a large significance. It's important to preserve artifacts and ways of life.  This could be an all-day stop.  Wonderful!  Very friendly and knowledgeable volunteers and rangers! Excellent insight into ranching history. It preserves an important part of the history of the West.  Most Americans never experience this. Open range historical information. Essential.  Western history exemplifies America. To preserve the importance and history of ranching. To show cattle ranches after the Civil War. U.S. history and culture. Understanding what ranch life is like. It shows how it fed and helped build this nation. Heritage and landscape. Heritage landscape. Many people knew about ranching and cowboys only from books and movies.  It's important to show a working ranch. Great example of ranching on the West. Working cattle and chuck-wagon. Our nation was developed partly through ranching and farming.  It is a wonderful gift to be able to understand how the process worked. Cultural and historic. Education on early history. It documents an important part of the Western experience and showcases what a real cattle ranch had to offer. Ranching settled much of the West. Settling the West and forging a life from nothing. To preserve the history of this region and the significance of the cattle industry as it related to feeding the nation and the history that ---- ----. Cultural history of cattle. Historical, scenic. This helps visitors learn about history of ranching. Educational-EXCELLENT!  Much better than expected. History of ranching. History! Wonderful historic adventure. Cattle ranching history. Keeping alive the old west. Heritage. Priceless. Provided information about a working cattle ranch. Western cattle history. The ability to preserve the ---- of amazing ----. Saves 1800's cowboy heritage. Forever to see what it was like during that ----. History of ranching. Learning about Western history. Mostly history for our grandchildren. To see our history in action. Good historical-accurate. History of working ranches. Great record for posterity. The transition of old ranching techniques to new, more efficient ones. This park shows the history of this part of the country.  Great exhibits. Showed us old time cattle ranching life. Demonstrates early significance of ranching and cattle in post Civil War era. Lots never knew. History. The history of this area. Learning about how ranches were run many years ago. Emphasis on importance of cattle raising. Long, well-documented history of cattle ranching and related industries, critical to the developing of the West. Assist in keeping it for future generations. Impact on cattle ranching. A great and interesting way to demo. ""food to table"" and to demo. ranching way of life! Preserving ranching history and culture. Excellent overview of ---- history. It teaches us about the history of ranching. It is an intact complete 80-year picture of the ranching industry in the early West. Relevant Western/Montana history. It showed the history of the beginning of cattle industry in Montana and how industrious some were. History. Homesteading life and ranching, how life was during the westward expansion. Beautiful historic house and furniture love it!  Love it! Preserve open range culture and history. Very significant part of the history of the west. To show the human spirit.  To teach my kids that they can come from nothing and make their own way! I think it is the only cattle ranch in the NPS system and therefore important. Shows how through farming and ranching cattle and horses an economic force was developed in the west in state of hardships. The history. History/farming/services. The history. Great snapshot of the birth of cattle industry. Knowledge of how it was. History. Life of a rancher. History of ranching in American West. Very significant.  Very interesting. Historic importance of cattle industry. Historical education. Historical significance. One of the 1st working ranches in the west-very interesting. Preserves early ranching, shows young people what can be accomplished through hard work and perseverance and provides a place for dreams of ---- era. Builder and shaker in the 1860s on.  The advancement in the more advanced home.  Quality workmanship. Preserving the history of ranching in the West. History of ranching. Cattle ranching and cowboy's life review. Learned the history of the area. Ranching history of Montana. It immerses visitors in the unique role of cattle ranching in American history. To learn the history of ranching in Montana-how it supplied jobs to people of all nationalities of all ages of live. Cowboy history! Farming!  Awesome!"
46,Tallgrass Prairie NPres,TAPR,"Keeping the natural grasses a part of our history and heritage. Our history is important.  Fall grass is missing everywhere.  Loved the bison, too. The prairie was such a huge part of American history-expansion west, pioneering, settlement.  It's a living snapshot of a piece of our history. It's important to understanding the eco system of the Prairie as well as how early settlers lived and worked on the plains. There is so little native prairie left and it is a huge part of our settling of the West. The part this area played in Westward expansion and the Cattle Industry. Preserve natural eco and history. The biodiversity of the Tallgrass Prairie and the amount of carbon dioxide these grasses remove the atmosphere. It is a life and ---- that is not ---- ----. Important to preserve this resource. If advertised properly, it could provide international interest. To preserve Tallgrass Prarie. Promotes conservation of ---- ecosystem and biological diversity. To keep the ---- land was ---- future generations. The preservation and conservation of a huge part of our national history. Enormous; a critical demonstration of true nature in the central U.S..  Preservation of true prairie is vital. Preservation of and increasing awareness of a critically important yet often overlooked ecosystem. Preserve Tallgrass Prairie ecosystem. It is a big statement about the importance of preserving our earth and its natural areas. Wonderful example of an important ecosystem. Preserve a remnant of the prairie experienced by the pioneers, and for wildlife habitat. Connection to our past-contrast between the years and comprehending the significance of preservation. It is a rare opportunity to view America, natural as it once was-beautiful! Prairie conservation. Preserving the national treasure that is the Tallgrass prairie. Preservation of tall grass prairie. Preserved Tallgrass prairie, 1800s ranch house. To keep the history for future generations. A heritage ---- and reminder of the rich past of our nation and the people who have gone before us. A unique opportunity to see and learn about an often overlooked element in our environment-grasslands. It's a fragile ecosystem that needs to be preserved. One of the finest and for a prairie environment timely or else we would not be able to come to such sites in years. Very informative and beautiful. It offers the opportunity to see and learn about a unique, important and often overlooked piece of our environment-Grass ----. Preserving the ---- and ---- and most importantly taking care of God's beautiful creation in Kansas. To learn more about ---- grass land. Untouched grassland to historical ranch. Preserving tall grass prairie. Grass preserve helps our city folks to see native cultures w/flora and fauna that I would not otherwise be able to see or experience. Great opportunity to see what Plains looked like before development peaceful, serene. Preserving nature and historical buildings from the 1800. Preserve the Prairie Tall Grass that was being lost.  Let public know what life was like prior to 20th Century.  Preserve for future generations. Pioneer history. Preservation of the beautiful Prairie and all the bio diversity associated with it. Since our country has less than 5% of it's natural prairies left, Tallgrass prairie is of extreme importance and significance to our country. The prairie is a key part of America. This is where the bison still live. Last of the tall grass prairie. The tallgrass prairie is so significant to our land and at times taken for granted.  Awesome. Preserving a true U.S. Prairie. How it show cases the Prairie and the Limestone. Both high historical and nature value. Last tallgrass prairie and bison sanctuary in Kansas and US. Grass prairie range land. It has saved a piece of the Tallgrass Prairie.  A book or picture cannot describe the feeling of standing and looking out over the sea of grass and wildflowers as it stretches into the horizon.  I cannot express the beauty of it and so much of our nation was covered in prairie (originally) and now only this little piece is left.  Please don't let this disappear! Important Tall Grass Prairie conservation and Bison herd. It is an exhibit of natural, untouched land, and of the various wild flowers.  Also, free-ranging bison. Real prairie. Of very great significance!  Where else can you see this, walk in it, no towns, nonuse, no road!  We need to keep it! Scenic prairie views, tall grass, ---- with bison (potentially), nothing else like it. High grass. Glad this park land was set aside! Important contribution to preserve the grasslands for the future. Preservation of remaining tall grass prairie ecosystem and historic ""wild west"" cattle ranching in the Midwest. Preserving remnant of prairie! ---- Has bison and other animals in their natural habitat. History of National prairie ----. It is very useful to educate people about the prairie and to show its beauty.  Also great to propagate the bison. Preserving ---- ---- ----. Provide an area of original prairie-historic significance-allow one to see natural beauty of flint hills. Rare opportunity to see a beautiful landscape and learn the natural history of the region. Tall grass and bison. The preservation of the tall grass prairie. The view of the beautiful nature and animals. To experience a unique outdoor environment which is unmatched in the nation. To let everyone know about the prairie in KS and OK. To preserve the tall grass prairie and some of the history at the first settlers of Kansas. Great contest nice info. It keep a piece of our history. It preserves what this nation used to be, before Europeans came.  We must remember. Natural preservation of wild west. Prairie conservancy-not many left. Preserving nature and prairie. The prairie is just spectacular. Very important. Tall grass prairie preserved. It reflects the importance of Global Conservation. The protection of habitat, natural and beautiful for the future of all peoples. Very important to the heritage of our nation. Preservation of natural habitat, flora, and fauna. Maintaining and restoring disappearing prairie ecosystems. Preserving and making available beautiful undisturbed prairie habitat.  It is a fantastic place, please keep it simple and natural. Preserving the prairie. To preserve a part of our history through nature-need more. Very important and history. Beautiful Prairie Land and historical buildings-don't want to lose. Tall grass prairie ecosystem. Largest continuous area of remaining Prairie in U.S.  Very important to preserve and also supports Bison! The last of the tallgrass prairie. Preservation of Tallgrass Prairie. Preservation and history of prairie. Tallgrass prairie remnant. To preserve the prairie, so we can understand what it was really like-the ---- ecosystem, grasses, insects, birds, ---- buffalo, etc. Tallgrass prairie less than 4% left. Geological formations and wildlife and desperately the prairie (historically). Good, enjoyed a lot. It is a part of the history of the U.S. ---- see/experience what once ---- Where ---- can you hear silence. It preserves the prairie and ---- and educate ---- to it's historical and current value and use. Not much prairie left in U.S. As one of the few remaining protected areas of tall grass prairie, it's value is ----!  Huge! Some of the last prairie left, it should be protected. Very limited Tall Grass Prairie Lands left in U.S. For far too long the National Parks have emphasized the big biota (trees) big geography (mountains) and our biggest, most endangered system is the tall grass. 0 So little remains of true Prairie and Pioneer History which is bedrock roots of American character without the actual land and flora/fauna can't KNOW our heritage. To help see the prairie which once loved so much of the nation. Shows the natural beauty of the plains prior to man destroying it. Preserving the tall grass."
47,Hopewell Furnace NHS,HOFU,"The history of iron production and technology. Preservation and heritage. Iron Industry; shows how men, women and Blacks worked together. Great heritage of early Industrial Development-also showed part of Country that treated Slaves equal to Whites. Providing access to the history of American Industrial Development and bring this history to life. Reminding people of our Country's great heritage, its way of life during the Agricultural and Industrial Revolution Ages. Historical significance of an iron furnace; how it worked and the community it established. The industrialization (early stages) that made the country great. Show how iron was made. Very significant to preserving our history. It helps us understand how our country harnessed iron and ore to create products that advanced our culture. The establishment of community with the iron technology and it's survival and growth. The significance is to preserve early industrial America and this site helps show the progression to modern day steel. Iron history. Very significant. Good reminder of the industrial history of the country. As things get more connected and technology advances, it's important to be aware of and respect a slower start to life. We learned a lot about the making of cast iron, etc..  Historically speaking, it was significant in providing stoves and cannons for the area. Preserved historic site, demonstrating historic culture in America. Very significant. Helped provide materials needed to fund revolutionary war and every day life. The significance of the park is the role it played in supplying iron ore to be used for making cooking and other tools. The only place I know you can see with the beginnings of the iron/steel industry. 0 History of iron work in PA/nation. Showing how America's iron industry began. Needed ---- by ---- iron ---- needed especially in the ---- and Civil War. Early America moving into the industrial age. History of iron industry in 19th century. Importance of how it contributed to development of overall industry in America. It shows how industry and community shaped our nation. So important to understand where we are now as to where we came from. Very good representation of early colonial life, South historical and informative. History of iron workers. Providing money and iron products to the war for Independence. How people of all color worked, lived, and schooled together.  Close to underground railroad. Shows how things worked to help our nation grow. To educate about historical significance of iron production in this area."
48,Florissant Fossil Beds NM,FLFO,"Preserve fossils. Redwood trees. The insect fossils. Historical preservation, public education. Great preservation of natural landscape, education programs for ---- are great. The trees covered in rock. Preservation of earth's history climate change. Geological history.  General history of area. History. Saving the history and an opportunity to enjoy nature and wildflowers. To preserve the world's greatest fossil collection and educate the public. Yes, history. Fossils. Fossils not found elsewhere. Amazing geological history that needs to be protected. Exploring and recording the paleontological history of the region. Fossils. Preserving fossils of future generations. The value of the fossil record is enormous. Being able to see the fossils, petrified redwoods is so important, people need to value this resource, and scientists need to be able to have these resources for research. The amazing scientific and historical aspects, plus the natural beauty. Pre-history of the continent. Historical. Preservation of a natural geological area. To preserve the knowledge of natural history of our planet. Great importance we have been coming here since 1975. Great that it's been preserved now. Beautiful area, paleontology interest. To preserve fossils and petrified ---- for future generations and keep this from becoming ---- Very important. It's out past.  We need to explore and preserve it for everyone. Fossils, petrified wood, etc. Preservation of the fossil redwoods and public education of fossils. Preserve history and landmarks. Geologic history, preservation importance, natural beauty of the area. History of CO and the past environments. American history, ""hands on"" geologic experience. To protect and preserve the fossils and petrified wood for future generations. Tremendous learning experience. Scientific. Great to learn about the Fossil history of this Region. World-class fossil specimens. History and creation!  What a wonderful lesson from such a beautiful barely touched part of our world. Redwood Fossils.  Wildlife. Conservation of National history. A National resource that can not be replaced and can't be found elsewhere.  education. Every piece of history in this Country should be preserved. Excellent. Fossil protection.  Wildlife protection. Glimpse into ancient history. Knowledge of history.  Interesting to see area, geology, plants, info from Staff  helpful. Preservation and education regarding fossil records of the area, research and education tying in geological events. Preservation-historical. VERY HIGH VALUE National significance.  Thank you to our Rangers for all that they do! Enable future generations to witness the past. Amazing archaeological collection and public education. It protects and tells the story of fossils unique to the history of USA. The fossil records are unique to the U.S.! Excellent petrified tree specimens. Scientific preservation. Great. Historical, educational and exercise. It's historical significance and the general outdoors. All of the flowers and all the wildlife. Preservation of petrified relics. Great fossils and amazing history with the homestead. Incredible info and fossils. Fossils, wild life, open space. One of a kind features and value. Preserving and educating about fossils and petrified trees. Provides fantastic fossils and petrified wood in situ.  Great educational site for geological history. Passing on history. Preservation for future generations. It's very good for young and old. How the land developed over time. Evolution of earth. Natural history, American history, Women's history. Preserved another of the major points of diversity and scientific importance. Preserving history. This park is highly significant, there are specimens here found no where else on earth. Fossil redwoods and other fossils are unique in the world. One of a kind.  Petrified red woods are wonderful and should be preserved. Redwood stump are incredible. Redwoods are great! The history, how diverse our country is, beautiful. Fossils. Very important. Yes.  This Park is of National historic significance.  It has a wealth of evidence for analysis leading to greater understanding of past and present. Love the history! Excellent! It captures a moment in time when fossils reveal that time to us.  Many other places only have rock stories of the past.  Most places that have life have mammals, not leaves and insects.  Also the people who lived there.  Similar to ---- gove in Smoky Mountains NP. Protecting our scientific heritage. To preserve fossils and petrified tree stumps. To preserve beautiful fossils. Fossils. Leave no trace, teaching future generations. Pristine example of preservation of fossils, and the geology associated with that process. ---- on children (and us too). Natural history. Preservation of the Eocene fossils! Scientific, historical, visual beauty. Value of preserving ---- in this time of climate change. Park staff is helpful and amazing! Preservation of our history. So we can look back and remember. A glimpse of the past.  Preserving the artifacts for my grand children and great grand children.  Parks service beyond valuable. Learn about geological history related to fossil formation in this area. Preserving prehistoric information. Very clean and ranger very polite. History of area, fossils preservation. Very significant for fossil history. The diversity of the Colorado region. Thank you for preserving our history! Show different fossil near in the U.S.A.. Highly significant.  I am glad this area has been preserved and protected. Very important to preserve and study the fossils. Education, preservation, understanding of the earth for the future. Fossil record. How our landscape was formed. Natural history-the story before and during, the story of the U.S.. Our ancient history is still our history.  This park highlights the very bones of our land and natural history.  It inspires young people to love nature and conserve it. Redwoods in CO! Helps preserve the paleontology ---- of ----. Preservation of our scientific resources and to share the beauty of America. Preserving our heritage. Redwood fossil/petrified wood open space. Significant information about the area and nation history. This is of supreme importance for understanding the evolution of plants and insects as well as geology. This fossil bed is a great opportunity to see plants and animals from millions of years ago. Awareness of fossils and geological processes. Absolutely. Preserve history. Very important to the significance of the drastic change in climate. Our place in history as humans in relation to other life is important to consider. Seeing the actual geological history of our great nation. Education, very pleasant. I'm traveling from NJ with 10 yr old daughter.  This gave both of us a crash course of giant evolutionary process of geological, climate and plant and animal changes.  Hands on and very clearly displayed for all levels to understand.  Very clearly displayed for all levels to understand.  Rangers spoke one on one, shared exhibits, offered programs. To create awareness of redwoods and how over time how much changes. The natural beauty that is shared by everyone. The history and preservation. The ---- Preservation of unique fossils like petrified wood. Moderate. The preservation of fossils and petrified redwoods. Very rare to see petrified red woods in Colorado, worth preserving for future generations. The preservation of fossils. History is so important and the preservation of our national treasures. 0 To educate about fossils, land. Yes-very nice fossil. Preserve irreplaceable fossils/----. Experiencing a huge wonder from over 100 million years ago, petrified Redwoods. History. Preservation of fossils and petrified wood. Preserving paleontological history of the United States.  Providing a scientific research and understanding past climates and current climate. Save the area for future generations. The preservation of history, and teaching the value of conservation to prevent destruction of historical artifacts. For many reasons it seems to me. The concept of migrating trees is of utmost significance. This is ---- in the fossil ---- as so much. Love the exhibits, walker displays ---- on time. Natural history and preserving our history. Preservation of natural treasures, especially the redwood retrified trees. Preservation of the past. Preserving the trees, the natural area and country side! The amazing variety of fossils and the learning lab for effect of climate change. The fossil and redwood ----. The historical aspect of the park is significant. The history of the area. The importance of learning about fossils and how it was made! Very significant. Earth and climate change over time. Great fossils. The amazing opportunity to see fossils. I think things like this should be preserved at all cost for the future. Preserving geologic artifacts. Great for city dwellers like me to get in touch with nature.  Loved seeing families, and every age group enjoying the site. Unique ecology, ancient biology. Fossil beds. To preserve fossils and teach about petrified trees. Preserved Redwoods...awesome. Fossils. History of nature. Preserve area and educate public. Preserve the fossil record of the geologic past. Learn history explore nature. Preservation of Earth's history to help us learn about today. National treasure. Excellent learning opportunity. Preservation of the petrified Redwoods plus numerous smaller fossils-an exceptional diversity of fossil plans and insects. History of nature. Preservation of past. To see insects and fossils of things we wouldn't normally see. Views are great.  Saw lots of flowers. Preserve historical sites for next generations for all to see. Very important to understand the geologic/natural history of our environment/nation.  Very informative! Preservation of valuable samples explore view for children-sampling outdoor science. Future knowledge and inspiration!! It's important scientifically helping citizens better understand the world around us. Education and history and overall ---- on patience that can be enjoyed by all. Preserving the old redwoods and the fossils. Natural preservation. Ancient history and geology. Unique fossils and petrified trees. Geologic/evolutionary significance. Archeologic and geologic history-fossil records. History, beauty. Unique petrified trees. Historical relevance. Preserving history for future generations. Great record of the past; too bad so much was removed in 19th century. Invaluable!  Knowing the planet's history is essential.  Without access to the past we can't make informed decisions about our present or future. It's a view of natural history that is real and not replaceable. Snapshot of early geological natural history of area. Fascinating displays. Hands on experience within my ----. Natural treasure, geological knowledge The significance is huge, so much history to learn about and preserve. To show how fossils are made and affect people. It's uniqueness as a geological and natural exhibit. The study and preservation of fossils. Preserving scientific treasures. This park is important to help us see our earth's history and how lands were formed. 0 Excellent history lesson. Future generations get to enjoy the natural resources and beauty of the U.S. It shows the changes over time to the area. Maintaining history. Preserve history-allow access. Preserving history to better understand it, ---- and value it is impt. to me, so I'm grateful for this park! Scenic, history, rare sights. The fossils. History of the area. Preserving the fossils and hx of the area for future generations! Provides public with an education. Wonderful national monument! Very high, understanding the history of the area was very educational. Learning about fossils. The fossils. I think the knowledge of the past state of the state is relevant to all. Lots of fossils. Very good.  Very interesting.  Not something we can see near our home. The ---- of petrified insects and redwood. Savings of the past in the fossils and trees. Very ---- significance. A general history so ancient that it is relatable to anyone/everyone. To preserve the fossil record. History. Fossils; petrified ""stumps"". It's history. Preservation of history. Scientific preservation. Superb.  So interesting and important for future generations. To preserve our past and its doing a great job. Geological. Preserving history and fossils. To preserve history for future generations. To see the past and the future, know history, preservation of current resources that we have and expand them. Very interested. We must keep our history and the parks are helping us do that. Yes completely agree that this park holds a lot of history from the fossils fund to the petrified red wood. Helps keep historical fossils for future generations. History and scientific discovery still being made. The significance of this park to study our past is extremely valuable but an insistence on using preconceptions from old theory as fact, hinders future study. Show the difference in eco system as well as the changing climate.  The fossilized/petrified stumps are awesome. To preserve and educate about the fossils."
49,Chamizal NMem,CHAM,"Communicating the positive resolution of border dispute but also to promote positive cultural relations. Between U.S./Mexico in terms of this territory.  Agreement between US/Mexico. It's for the people's use. Where U.S. and Mexico cooperated to settle their border dispute. Resolution of ----. Availability of local international performances. Availability for beautiful performances. Awesome. Peace between Mexico and America. Showing peaceful resolution of border dispute. Very interesting. It is a testament to two nations solving a problem is a peaceful way and a place to study the beginning of cultures. History, pleasure. Mexico/US border shitty. Being available for be national events and great performances for all ages. Border relations. Community gathering togetherness. Good relations with Mexico. Meeting place of Mexicans and Americans-nations can work together. The importance of working for a peaceful resolution to issues between the countries. Peaceful resolution. Important. I'm learning yet, was raised in Juarez. A place for future generations to learn about two countries working together resolving conflict with peace. Very significant.  Give it 100.  Can it be all events here at one time? Part of the border history. Memorialize peaceful border disputes between US and Mexico. Celebrates US-Mexico relations. To ---- land ---- between the United States and Mexico. To remember and educate about the treaty with Mexico, ---- the border has changed over time. Peaceful solution. Awesome exhibit and help us the education to know about history of ----. International relationship between Mexico and US story few park sites commemorate. Especially meaningful during ---- presidential race (U.S.A.)... The video. To preserve history and also the struggle of inhabitants. The heritage is very beautiful. The power of diplomacy and the importance of pursuing peaceful relationship with our neighbors. The historical boundaries. The relationship with other countries. Signifies cooperation between USA and Mexico. Providing history about US-Mexico relations, providing a nice park. Wonderful resource and education. Heritage/learning history of how it became a park. Historical aspect. Represents a land swap between Mexico and the state of Texas, many were forced to relocate.  The ---- of ----. The historical significance of the dispute between America and Mexico and it's peaceful resolution was incredibly interesting. The outdoors is my thing. Friendship. History. Peaceful resolution of border dispute. It allows for specific historical areas to be kept for future generations.  History is kept alive.  Areas are spared from reorganization. Benefit of combining cultures respecting each other and incorporating resolution. Describes more effectively and in more detail to understand. Peaceful boundary dispute resolution. Settled the border dispute between U.S. and Mexico when Rio shifted.  Jose was very helpful and knowledgeable. The Chamizal and ----, the cultural history of the area. To learn about our neighbors and American/Mexican history. Very nice. The culture and people-preserve the roots and educate on Chamizal. Yes. Important piece of El Paso history. Symbol between TX and Mexico with shifting flow of the Rio Grande.  Came to terms with land acquisition. Show the influence and integration of two nations.  USA and Mexico. Formerly being part of Mexico and acting as a border. It is a place where anyone can come and enjoy the parks history and use the BBQ's to enjoy a meal. It signifies the friendship between US and Mexico. My opinion of the park system is a beautiful park. One of the best parks I've been. Memorial to peaceful solution to border conflict. Final resolution to a bitter border dispute-boundary marker. People here are very friendly and helpful.  (Rangers). To countries coming together. Conflict resolution between two nations by agreeing to divide land vs war. Great significance. It's history most of all. To understand the history of how our country's border. The treaty between Mexico and U.S. change of border due to change of Rio Grande. Shows our history ---- Mexico. Mexican and USA relations and history. Memorial to the Peace Treaty between Mexico and the United States. I am partial to the Chamizal because I am local and watched it develop. It solidifies cooperation between two nation's and fosters a good spirit. History of the ---- land. It shows our history between Mexico and the USA.  How we settled differences. The establishment of this national park came from two friendly countries US and Mexico. To show the US commitment to have peace w/neighbors. Friendship and sharing. Two countries coming together and agreeing on the border. I think it is very significant, due to how it took to sign the treaty and figure out the border. Unity of the two countries and the ability to work together for a solution. It commemorates a 100 yr dispute between the US and Mexico, that ended in a peaceful agreement. A place for the community to enjoy! It signifies the 2 nations working together to make a ---- A historical mark. Creating a place to share cultural diversity. Enjoyed the historical aspect of the park. The integration of Mexican and American culture coming together in a desert. The relationship between two wonderful activities-very important in this moment in history. Demonstration of friendship between Mexico and USA. To show the border significance. U.S./Mexico cooperation. Two countries. Peace between 2 nations bordering each other. History of conflict between Mexico and US. Peace/cooperation agreement between U.S. and Mexico. Border dispute resolution. To honor the signing of the Chamizal treaty. Historical. Highly.  They should air a documentary during this election year for all to see! It is a reminder of how conflict can be resolved peacefully. Separation agreement with Mexico over disputed borders. The Spanish heritage and culture coming to our building to create a bond. Boundary history and peace. The history between the U.S. and Mexico. The fact that it is the only park nearby. The union of two cultures. Historical. Good I have always enjoyed the info that rangers provide. How it was created, its part of El Paso history. The ways in which it signifies cooperation between our nation and Mexico. Celebration of resolution of conflict with Mexico. Not national, nor significant.  Simply art for the people, for the concept of nation, behold people. The history behind it, the good relations with Mexico. Coming together in ----. Families reunite, beautiful summer music, family oriented. The park commemorates and affirms international acts of cooperation. Resolved dispute with Mexico. This is really great! US Mexico cooperation. Culture. Building is in very good condition.  It's nice to have a ---- like this in town. Conserve the natural and historic object.  Leave it unimpaired for future. Historic. History of El Paso TX. I don't really know. I think it's national significance is the very thing that the Rio Grande changed and this piece of land hat was once Mexico became the United States of America. It is everyone's responsibility to take care of this park!  I enjoy using it often. The treaty with Mexico over the piece of land. Theater. To divide the land between US and Mexico under the treaty divided by just the river. To entertain the people. Two nations coming together. To represent and remind people of the significance of the Chamisal ---- and show how the Rio Grande has changed. Significance of this park is that two countries established a peace treaty agreement of territorial. I had no idea there was conflict over this land so it shows how our country can work together in peaceful ways and gives me great hope for the future. Very nice place!"
50,San Francisco Maritime NHP,SAFR,"Very good-lots of info.  Live in San Rafael, so will come back. Illustrates ---- ---- Country was ----. To learn from history and give visual learning. Essential to our future. Informative and preservation. Display of old boats. To maintain the history and the area. Ships. It's authentic and historical ----. Local interest in Maritime history of the area. Preservation of the ----. The history and heritage of the lives of the old sea ferrers is enormous. History to present. A part of the US, meaning a part of me, or I'm a part of it. Very important. The San Francisco Bay and maritime history. Less recreational more ---- history which is done ---- ---- ---- ---- experience ---- ---- make. To show people the history of the San Francisco Bay area. Maritime history US national history city SF. Explaining the beginning of San Fran. History of ----. Well done displays of how Port of San Francisco represents how Mid 19th to Mid 20th century Western coastal life was. Very good history ---- ---- and it's maritime history. SF ---- ----. Major part of ----. Great presentation of this areas history through interesting exhibits. SF and ---- and Italians. The ships and information. The economic development of San Francisco, California and the US. Great history and heritage for ships. History of West coast commerce. The significance to the nation. It's an important part of the history of California. Important demonstration of the Gold rush effects on settlement. Maritime history. Passing on Maritime history. To show the maritime history and development and how it has effected the growth of CA and the US. History. Maritime history of SF. History should be preserved. It's the NYC central park of the West. Living history and development of the nation. Raise interest in sea. Yes!  The boats and the history behind them ---- ----. Preservation of ---- ---- and knowledge of ---- boats history. Significant in regards to history. Naval history. To learn some ---- SF's history and how city developed. Incredible display of ships that show what SF is all about. Maritime contributions. To show future generations and learn from our past. History of sailing in SF. Cool place in the middle of the wharf, very informative. Very important, must be maintained as a national treasure, a great benefit to tourists. Keeping history alive. Our maritime history is important to preserve! The park has both ---- ---- and national significance for the city of SF in the whole California state. Affirms the value of American history and taking the time to be ---- with SF history. San Francisco Bay and maritime history. Capture the history of a significant ---- of such diverse and important ----.  This visitor center is one of the best we have visited.  Thank you! Understanding the origins of SF people involved, industries, transport, nature, geography of the area. Learning about the incredible history of the maritime and how it plays a role in all we do today. S.F. History. Gateway to the West and ---- ----. History of shipping and use of SF port in 1850-1900's. It was very interesting. A rich interesting history. Historical value to the memories of all sea farrers. Historical. Maritime ---- of bay. To show and preserve maritime history.  The exhibits and movies are exceptional.  So impressed with this site! ---- as a long retired sailor and lover of sailing ships this has been a ---- return ---- ----. The maritime history of San Francisco. As an over seas visitor ---- great appreciate. History of the most important west coast city (at the time). Good. Historical significance of the waterfront. Historical value, history of SF area and it's importance. Information presented is important to all. For us all to see boats and how they were used thru our history.  ---- Rich natural history. The growth and development in the SF bay area and it's importance to the growth of the US. All parks for different reasons. Education ---- ----. The history. To learn about the history of the bay area. Ships. History of commerce on the West Coast. Marine history. Preservation of old ships. Commerce in days when shipping was so important-ship building, rigging and sailing skills. Reminding people of the history of Fisherman's Wharf and San Francisco, as well as educating about past industry. Historical significance and timeline. Relevance of sailing and water travel to U.S. history. To show the history of the ships. Our nation's history, heritage, equality. History. Nature and historic meaning/importance. Great, thank you. History of life at sea. History. Shipping/boating heritage. Reminds people of the history. The history of maritime commerce in this country is important to understand. Preserve historic relics from our past. Interesting displays about history of West Coast shipping commerce and S.F. port activities.  The ships were great to explore! Preserve maritime history. Maritime history. Trade history. Excellent ship/maritime history lesson. Educating us about significance of sailing craft historical. This is an opportunity to ""live"" history. Great insight into sea cargo history. To learn from the past. It's all very good and very interesting. Excellent history. Learning about our history and how this area grew and was built. History of maritime. It shows the importance of shipping to international trade as well as San Francisco and California to international trade. The past of this city. Beginning of trade. History of maritime shipping trade in Western US (California). Maritime history. To learn about maritime history. History of San Francisco, transportation and development of US economy. History of the pass. Got to see old maritime practice. The history of ships and the work around harbors. History. History. Teach all of the US the value of history and the importance of the ----. Moderate, but great local significance. We all need to see and experience where and how we came to be and have what we have because of ---- came before us. Very interesting, bring back most of old artifacts. To capture life from the past, great recreation area. To learn about the history of the area and how it contributed to ---- ---- ----. Boats. The history of SF maritime history in general. It does a wonderful job of bringing the experience and history of the ---- of San Francisco to visitors. History. Incredible history of SF, have been coming to Fisherman's Wharf for 50 years, living in SF for the last 30 years. Best Western US harbor. The city and ---- with the water and it's resources. Excellent in introducing the history of boats and ships in this area. Remembering of things past.  All great parks (thanks Teddy and Franklin) and sacred places! I enjoy how the National Parks preserve and protects natural and cultural resources. Historic education. Maritime historic port. A good recap of the maritime history of the mid 19th century. Education. Great historical value."
51,Frederick Law Olmsted NHS,FRIA,"Shows on ---- of the idea of parks for ""the people"" and therefore of our own Nat'l Park system.  Also have natural environments are planned in parks. This was absolutely fabulous!  Best tour guide ever-Mark Schwartz. The history of landscape architecture.  The Olmstead archives of plans and drafting equipment. It could not be more significant and the presentation of the info is excellent. There are Olmsted parks throughout our nation!  The opportunity to understand this legacy and see where the creative work was done is the best I have encountered.  An invaluable experience-TOP QUALITY! To enlighten all people of what a ---- company and person Olmsted was. FLO site key to landscaping America. Great experience-what a marvelous site and story! Olmsted is one, if not the, key transformative features of the 19th C.  The park does an excellent job in sharing that story. The originality of the Olmstead projects and a look into the heritage of his family, his beautiful house and garden, untouched by time. It is the home, garden and offices of the man who invented an American original: free parks open to ALL. Home and office of foreseen of ---- of landscape architecture who ---- historical ---- of urban park design. Home and office of one of ---- ---- landscape design professionals. Olmstead was a Pioneer in the field of landscaping/architect.  This, was extremely interesting!  Loved it! Exceptional-history, heritage and happiness. Excellent lesson in history of landscape architecture! I live locally and enjoyed the visit! The beauty that has been brought to this Country and still exists today. To preserve the history of the American landscape architecture history, which is key to U.S. aesthetics. To promote the influences of Olmsted and his firm's accomplishments in the U.S. landscape field. To preserve our history and the people who provided it! It introduces the whole concept of landscape planning and architecture, links the above to ALL natural Parks. Olmstead ""wrote the book"" on why not landscape in America and graced the land with his magnificent places. Establishment of landscape architecture and Olmstead as first advocate for outdoor spaces. The importance of F.L. Olmstead to our urban environment. Excellent Tour-thank you. Olmstead's landscaping transformed the lives of Americans, especially urban dwellers. Frederick Law Olmsted was responsible for so many great parks.  Neat to see his studios. This is a largely forgotten piece of history, but it is central to the landscapes our nation experiences every day. The significance is placed on the work on parks and landscaping. Development of American park system. Incredibly important. Landscapes, ----. Lots of connection to places in U.S.. Opportunity for people to see where Olmstead lived and worked and to hear about his career and accomplishments. Legacy of landscape architecture profession, creation of public park space. A place to relax and enjoy our surroundings and nature. Outstanding. Yes.  Olmsted was the father of ---- ----. Influence on landscapes that are so well known and widespread.  Birthplace of landscape architecture. Frederick Law Olmsted had a huge influence on many of the country's national landmarks. Impact on Urban spaces. Continuing the legacy of landscape architecture. Landscape architecture changed how Boston, and many other cities, looked.  Appreciation of all the green spaces! To better understand the history and importance of the park system created by Frederick Law Olmsted. Olmsted's importance. Insight of setting of ""Father of Landscape Architecture.""  Incredible role in the design of important landscapes. Informative. Development of landscape architecture. Flo influenced much of the development of our nation.  He and his firm's work deserves to be  remembered. Founders of landscape architecture in this country. Incredibly significant to the history of America. Olmstead was the father of American landscape architecture.  Great exemplar of American ingenuity! Olmsted and his film played an enormous role in elevating the American public landscape to a shared inheritance and space of beauty. Origins of landscape architecture. Preserving beautiful homestead to share and appreciate with future generations. Proof of the value of parks, nature, human ingenuity in the service of all. The original founding of the profession of landscape architecture in the US. To understand the importance of natural beauty and to further appreciate the parks, garden, etc. Very important. Very much enjoyed the staff fabulous. Very significant.  Importance of nature in people's local living area.  How that comes about. Olmsted shaped cities, parks, institutions, the landscape all over America.  Great national significance. A necessary starting point in the Olmsted story. The creation of landscape architecture and the life and works of Mr. Olmsted. First landscape architecture in the nation! Frederick ---- Olmsted was a ---- figure in park and city planning-he left us an unparalleled legacy. It tells the story of our nation's parks and cities' parks and park systems which were all launched, planned and/or inspired by the Olmsted firms. Great idea to save house and landscape. It shows information and achievements-a life of a great architect who contributed a lot to the nation. I had no idea this history behind some of the country's greatest Urban parks. Frederick ---- designed so many important landmarks in US ----. Learning history of Country's most famous city (and other/parks) Olmstead was influential in creating Parks for everyone in the U.S. Origins of Landscape movement, Origins of Mental Health relief from Urban ills. The history of so many national treasures is amazing.  The tour was very informative and well done. The US would be a different place.  This is a ---- ---- of the ----. Learn about ---- ---- landscape ----. Educational for future generations. First landscape architecture in USA. History of landscape architecture, how it shapes community and culture. The birthplace of our nation's most democratic communities. Very important. Olmsted and sons created so many national parks and other natural facilities. Olmstead because of study out West helped est. NP ideals-he also aided in parks we still enjoy today because of his ---- help. The history and design with nature and creation of some of our country most beautiful parks and natural places. It helped save open space-Olmstead the visionary. Spreading the value of Landscape Architecture. ---- 1st landscape design ---- in US mechanics of design process. Extraordinary influence that Olmstead had on our public parks.  Landscape and beauty of our country. It is the first landscape architectural firm of America, full of archives and history. Preserving and appreciating nature and landscape architecture. Relevant information. To learn, in-depth, about a man key to (and pioneer) of American landscaping.  I live in NYC, and learned more about the man responsible (all or in part) for the landscaping of 2 of NY's greatest parks.  Central Park and Prospect Park. It shows how park came to be how they are today. Great historical relevance. As parks across the country were designed here, its great for people to see how and where it was done. History of landscape arch. profession. The beginning of landscape architecture. Olmstead is an important American figure and artist.  His home and office is very important to preserve. Very good and informative. Essential U.S. history entree to exploring landscape architecture. Rich in history not just to locals from Boston area but many areas of the U.S. The history of Olmstead and his influence on Landscape Architecture. Visitors can learn about the history.  gives people a feel of the life style in the past. Preserving the important ideas of Olmstead-social change-letting nature be natural. The Park is significant historically, design-wise, and interesting insight into the live of an iconic American. Very important to understand the vision and importance of land preservation for the masses-enjoyable recreation area. Landscape architecture. Balancing sprawling City planning with creating natural spaces. I only had heard the name.  After visiting, I had a great appreciation for Frederick Law Olmstead. History, antiquities, knowledge. Birth place and origin of Parks and landscape. Extremely significant-a very important site. Learning about how people are so creative and getting inspiration.  Acknowledging work that goes into these kinds of things. Olmstead was an inspirational American and man. Outstanding!  THANK YOU VERY MUCH! The many, many significant CONNECTIONS to so  many areas all over this Country!  One feels that it ALL began right HERE, in Olmstead's head and heart. The role of public Parks in the identity of communities, urban areas, and the Country. This offers a wonderful range of views about what it takes/took to develop Olmstead's plans. To give visitors an understanding and appreciation of the history and impact, of preservation. To show case landscape architect design. Olmstead has amazingly broad influence on American landscape and his work is memorable. Olmstead Legacy. Very interesting.  Landmark. Olmstead was an important part of our Cultural Heritage. To learn about Olmstead and his impact on the creation of landscape architecture in America. Visionary of Parks-we wouldn't have them without him. To provide people with areas of respite, beauty that reflect and honor the magnificent gifts of this amazingly, beautiful Country.  Preserve our architectural history. Reflects the image of a creative genius that benefits all to this day; a treasure of the past that still impacts the present. Amazing historical record of Park/Landscape Development. Amazing Landscapes. Created Parks in Cities and gave us a greater appreciation of our environment. Important to America's Parks and history. Learning about Landscape Architecture and how things were done before computers and technology. Memorializing the work of a National hero. Olmstead an amazing visionary whose work has benefited millions of Americans-well done! Olmstead pioneered Landscape Architecture in the U.S. and North America. Olmstead was a National treasure.  It is great to see his firm's work was preserved for all to see. Remove over head wires! Significance with Park design across the Country. To preserve start of Landscape Architect. This is a Museum of our first landscape architect. Lovely! To learn about Boston Parks and Olmstead. Documenting the history of F.L. Olmstead and early Brookline.  Also preserving the Olmstead archives. History of our physical environment-of supreme importance. The importance of landscape design in America. Important to the landscape of America. Education and appreciation of an artist. Learning how our parks and Olmsted make America a better place to live. Olmstead played a major role in creating Urban park environments which are a major part of many Urban areas. It shows the history of other parks.  It's really interesting to see why other parks were made for and there significance. Places all over the US have seen Olmsted's influence. Amazing, he was my grandfathers grandfather. At the top. F. Olmsted was the founder of NPS. Great significance in light of the nation-wide work the Olmstead's did. Here we learn about the man and ideas and designs that collectively are the cornerstone of our modern landscape architecture. Olmstead's contribution to landscape design. Olmsted's landscape architecture influence. The history of the man that created Americas parks and landscape. It allows us to learn about history and see the impact of decisions/actions made. The history and impact in the US. Learning about our parks and the people who made them is important. Key to understanding the reason and benefits to community parks in Urban areas. Landscape history. F.L. Olmstead Jr. two of the visionaries of the NPS's creation.  Their home and offices are the origin of so many of our great public spaces. Cultural history and emergence of landscape architecture profession as well as Olmsted's life. The origins of landscape architecture in America. It shows an important part of the development of the USA. A fascinating visit to the actual home grounds and workshop of Frederick Law Olmsted.  Wonderful!  He designed all my favorite parks from California, NY to Boston. Contribution to landscape history and design (US and elsewhere); importance of archival preservation. Covers history that applies to almost all states. Father of landscape architecture and all parks he touched. Great nation builder. Learn about parks created and why they are important. Thank you, wonderful tour!  Ranger was very informative! The legacy of Flo and their work in communities throughout the country. The nation's cities, parks and historic properties are designed by the individuals who lived and/or worked in this house, starting with the genius of Flo. To educate people on the landscape architect F. L. Olmsted and his influence. History of parks development. Olmstead is a real ""icon"" of an important part of scenic spaces. Olmstead's influence is nation wide. Quite significant. The 1st landscape architecture firm which established a field for ---- ability-global/----! History, brilliance, connection with creativity. Important person with large contributions to U.S.. This is a beautiful tribute to the progenitor of the National Park System and the Emerald Necklace, a national treasure. Frederick Law Olmsted transformed landscapes across the country. Design of Central Park/RCP in DC and others. It provides insight into the design of parks across the country. History of architect who made a mark on many parts of the US. Highly significant-design of many of our gorgeous National treasures. Many American cities and landscapes came out of this ----."
52,Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt NHS,HOFR,"HUGE!  FDR was such an influential figure in America and for so long he was in the public eyes.  I just love him! The legacy of FDR. FDR was one of our most consequential presidents.  His home and library help explain his ability to impact our nation even today. American history. A major turning point of time in our history to actually see artifacts and documents of FDR's life brings it more to life than books. It allows you to explore the personal history of one of our greatest presidents. Library and museum of greatest U.S. President in the 20th century. Fantastic, informative, interesting, beautiful Presidential museum.  I learned so much. Historically accurate.  Very interesting, informative. FDR, President, his accomplishment. Presents the history of the FDR administration very well-objective and unbiased. History! FDR's home and resting place. To educate the public about history and the president. It is showing how significant it still is.  We are still fighting the same issues. The story of a very significant president FDR. The park was GLOBAL significance as the home and library of two of the greatest people of the 20th century. To educate the American people about one of their greatest presidents!!  FDR!! To show the history of our country and the importance of FDR and Eleanor to our country. Great tour of FDR's house, museum, stable, grounds and gardens.  Good job, ticket person's very good. Highest, grateful for it's existence. Very educational-easy to forget what you learned in school. FDR had such significant impact on nation, exhibits in library very informative but lay out a bit chaotic. Excellent. Preservation of history and tribute to an extraordinary leader. Showcasing the life of a great president. Home of FDR, shaped the world. Home of our greatest and most prolific president and his history. It gives insight into how the politics, economics and technology of the time affected the future. President FDR years in office. Several historical documents from a critical period in time.  Ability to get a first hand look at culture/society in a past time period. FDR. History of a great president. National history. To learn our history.  If you don't know your part, you are bound to repeat it. It was home to one of our great Presidents. To educate people on the life and accomplishments of FDR and Eleanor. Teaching about overcoming adversity, both personally and as a nation. History. History-Presidential Home and Library. Presidential history-history of the Great Depression and World War II. An example of the life of one of the most influential presidents ever. The history of FDR and Eleanor is so important because of oncoming the effects of polio and his decisions and programs were ---- what the country ----. FDR gave citizens a safety net an opportunities to live a healthy life. Historical perspective of one of great leaders. Historic importance to the US of FDR and Eleanor Roosevelt and the interesting contrast with guilded age Vanderbilt's. Historical record of critical time in American history. Increased understanding of how those of privilege feel a responsibility to serve the rest of us Americans. The four terms of FDR shaped this country for generations.  The significance is powerful and timeless. FDR legacy is vital to remember the election year. Nature/nurture background of presidents as influence on presidential decisions/policies. The history of FDR's presidency, the domestic world events at that time. Establishes a ---- land ---- on extraordinary president ---- and even more extraordinary period. To remember the contributions made by FDR and ERR to the nation and its citizens-and to educate the young!! Bringing history to life. Presidential home. FDR was president during a pivotal period of history (depression and WWII). Birthplace and home of American president FDR. I learned a lot about FDR and his role getting us out of the Depression and leading us during World War II. It shows the true history and small things even at my age I had forgotten about. Presidential and early to mid 20th century American history. Preserving for future generations the great ---- this ---- has preserved. The significance and impact FDR had on our country AND the world. To help us ---- democratic ---- it ----. That we can make a difference in the lives of our fellow citizens; that history is to be learned from. To recognize and honor a great President for and his First Lady Eleanor. Shows the continuing significance of the WPA, CCC, Social Security and other New Deal Programs and the need to keep them! Insight into an important president. History of FDR and Eleanor.  Nicole, our guide, was very knowledgeable. FDR and Eleanor were one of the most significant presidential couples in our history-major changes to government and civil society occurred during his terms. The significance of the park is recognition of FDR's contribution to the nation and humanity. Our tour guide was excellent.  The home was amazing, but the library was even better! Obviously, FDR was a critical president and the location drew significant historical figures.  Also nice that original furnishings are present. Between the home and the ----, I was able to get a great ---- of who FDR was both personally (as an individual, husband and father) and professionally (governor and president).  I love the fact that 95% of the furnishings in the house are original and I loved seeing all the manuscripts, letters, documents (including ----) in the museum.  The vehicles. Immense importance to our country. Important to remember statesmanship of Eleanor and Franklin Roosevelt. FDR was the only 4 term President and the only handicapped one. The birthplace and home of FDR and his family. Thank you! FDR was great in peace and war.  Learned a good deal (Pun intended). Very interesting account of American history during FDR's live/Presidency.  Well done.  Will be going back very soon! Back ground to the presidents life, brought to life. Excellent contact with history exhibits. It showed the hard times our nation went through and what FDR did to save it.  Programs to give people jobs, improve economy, help for those who need it most. FDR was one of the most important and influential presidents of all time.  We need to understand what and how he did. This should be preserved for all time. This is the home of the country's only 4 term president and a monument to the power of those living with physical disability. We desperately need FDR's principles today!  So the site is of world importance extra. This park describes the history of our nation during one of it's most difficult periods and teaches many lessons that should not be forgotten. Preserve the legacy of an American leader who impacted the entire world.  This is a national treasure!  Ranger Bob-gave a great tour. This park has both the childhood home and the presidential library giving a fuller picture of FDR. To see how he lived and how he addressed his disability."
53,Capulin Volcano NM,CAVO,"Historical significance. The geological formations impacted the life around the whole region. Educational. It's unique, much like the ---- of this vacation. Geological understanding. Natural landscape. The volcano making smaller rocks to form New Mexico. Dormant volcano. The volcano it's rare to see one without going to ----. Beautiful and ---- aspects. Geologic history. Great historical area, beautiful views. An excellent example of cinder cone volcano. Help kids understand nature, understand where/how natural structures formed. Yes!  For sure! Only one neat as. 0 Ancient volcano, ---- to Westward movement. Learning about the information of our nations Landscape. Very educational. Educational and scenic and natural habitats intact. Origins of our continent. This recent volcano cinder cone is relatively recent, and symmetrical, providing a unique visit or experience for education and recreation. This is a great place to see volcanic activity-way better than sitting in a classroom! A true landmark. ---- Seeing a volcano cone. The history. The volcano's impact on the land here A great volcano!  Cinder at that. To learn. Very beautiful place. Let the kids experience a volcano. Natural beauty. The geological significance of the site. Volcanic activity history. Glad we stopped. A piece of history to share with one another. Connects you to nature and history. Education on volcano's. Geo-heritage. Great example of the ---- volcano field. Igneous rock. Just very pretty and geologically important. Loved the opportunity to be inside a volcano! To see an active but dormant volcano in all its glory. Very good for geology and geographic history. Very high-should be supported. Yes! A excellent representation of our natural history. Cinder cone volcano-great learning all about it. Formation of volcano's. Getting to see an actual volcano. Great park and views accessible for an old guy like me. Its a sick volcano! Its historic story and spectacular view. Nice place. Scientific historical preservation as a scientist I'm glad it's here. Very clean and nice. Volcano history. Appreciation for US geology. It's a unique place to our country that should be preserved. Had no idea this was here, really enjoyed it. Volcano Learning about Geology of area! Preservation of our natural environment. Unique scenery/nature opportunity wildlife. History of our land. History of the volcano and how it shaped the land. History, geology. It is educational treasure for nature and Geology for the whole family. Natural history of area is fascinating. Preserving nature and the wildlife. Example of geology and effect on environment. Geological and volcanic history. Historical significance. It's our history. To show the way things have changed over decades. To show where and how our great country was formed. Learning. To show what this state has around the grounds and to show the nature around us was built. Nature is beautiful and this is a place to appreciate it. To explain the history of happening at the park. To learn about volcano's. History of volcanoes. It's great history or Eastern volcano fields and geology of the area. The opinion that you don't see this every day. The ---- volcano was a fun trip. Our families best chance to see volcano close up, very significant. Important to history. Good. Learning about the geology of the region. Learning about the history of this land before European colonization. Unusual geology. Very national parks are great. It is a volcano. It's a volcano. Cultural, historical, biological preservation. It's a land mark among all the plans. Great view and interesting geology. A very good example of extent volcano.  Not very many exist with this excellent access, view and history. Give basic info on formation of volcano's. Great info on the ecology of this region. Very important. Beauty and educational. For kids and adults to learn about volcanoes, see it's remnants first hand and to fuel kids curiosity for science. Geology of Southern plains. Great, got to see hummingbird catch-second hand! I am a history buff and a national park enthusiast. Major. Rugged desert beauty, easy access from large population regions. Some ---- would plow and make money. The discovery by archeologists (Extinct Bison bones) very significant.  Can see 4 states at once! Volcano and seeing so far easily. Access to the rim and crater of an actual volcano, and the look out at the top at all the surrounding volcanoes. I didn't know about any of this prior. It shows how far inland the push from the formation of this continent came. The fact that it's a dormant volcano. To show a great geological formation. To show case the beauty of nature. Geological and historical. To show the history and geography on how the acid was formed. The volcanism that occurred here not too long ago. Great example of cinder cone volcano. Natural history and geology. Geological forming of our earth. It is important to preserve those features that formed this country.  History reveals much-never know when it may repeat. Wonderful asset.  Thanks. Yes. History is always great. Knowing the volcano. This is a historical mark and is great to enjoy nature at it's best. This is really great. Very important. Yes, I agree.  The Park is significant because it is a ----, a place ---- to learn, a Lake to enjoy ----, a place to walk around ----."
54,Lands End,GOGAi,"A destination for anyone coming to our city.  Most beautiful place in the country. Connection to gateway of the U.S.. Not sure.  Important SF site. It's a reminder of some of history that otherwise isn't taught.  Walking Tours with stories and ---- bring it to life!  Also the ---- ---- who knew there was a lawsuit involving an African American?  Wow! Saving open space at Lands End and highlighting natural and human history. Great, very important. Sutro's contribution to SF's recreation. Good History. Space for nature in an urban area. Preserving nature. Coastal landscape. Protect nature. Protecting nature and the ruins. National significance of indigenous culture and American (Sutro Bath's), like signs about indigenous. Significant preservation of nature. Preserve nature. Preserving the site history and nature. It is the corner of San Francisco, a majestic spot. Nature. The history and scenery of lands ----. The history and scenic views ---- for generations.  Lands end, CA. Sutro baths do not appear very well maintained. Appreciation of US natural resources. Combination of SF history and natural beauty. Historical and scenic significance. The law ratification allowing everyone to come to the Cliff House and Sutro baths (1890-1900) (I think). It's the entrance to SF ---- Sutra bathes and legions of American it's beauty must be preserved! The native Americans history, the reestablishment of native plant species, and the preservation of natural landscapes in close proximity to densely populated urban centers. The beauty and majestic ---- people ---- enough to pay to keep in ---- too many of ----. Preserving history and beauty of San Francisco. We are from Washington state visiting, help mostly our kids for general information. I am 19 years old but I like this place. Yes, it's true and to see God creation. That's the most national significant area in San Francisco. Preserving natural resources. Learning that Harris vs. Sutra was one of the first successful civil rights suits was a revelation!  Thank you Ranger Penn. The Harris vs. Sutra case! History of California, San Francisco. It will always remain pristine. Our historic legacy and history of San Francisco, local, regional and national. SF history!  Love it. Tremendous, we all need to learn more about our national parks and programs like to SF library to make them more accountable to all. Important to have accessible parks for everyone. Play land-old swimming pool. To teach generations of its history. Helps learn more about San Fran. Education younger generation about nature historic and protect our environment. Fresh air. The area and scenery. It's a combination of historical significance and natural beauty. To show culture and history. History about the city, heritage. I don't know sorry. Great part of SF long history, even before it was established. A look into the past.  History and ---- of human kind. A must visit and great learning available.  I'm a local and didn't know about most of the info. History. Spending time with family in this beautiful location."
55,Rainbow Bridge NM,RABR,"It is a living, changing treasure to be protected and preserved, so future generations can also stand in awe and know their place in the greater scheme of things. To learn about the history of your country geologically and politically. Geology, Rainbow bridge. Wild space. The arch is amazing and a sight to behold for everyone.  The story behind it's discovery is also an interesting road.  The natural beauty is awesome!! It was amazing to see the bridge and learn about how it was sacred to the native Americans and how it was formed. Protection of both national wonder and cultural heritage and broader benefit to all people of the beauty of nature. Pretty **** amazing place natural bridge. Preserve the past for the future. Ascetical Native Indian significance and water ----. Culture of Navajo Indians and the history of this Lake/Monument. How over time water cut a hole through the rock. Very important and beautiful. Preserving life with Water Control Program.  Keep a preserved area. Link between the Indian nation and the white people.  ---- is about all. To keep the link between the Indian nation and the white people. The significance of this park is the story behind the rainbow bridge. High. Honor of native Americans.  ---- by native. We enjoy bringing our children to see this amazing site and teach them about nature and the outdoors. One of the largest natural ---- in the world.  Beautiful. Sacred to Native Americans cultural history, natural wonder, great place to learn about geology. Lake, Rainbow Bridge, wildlife. Inspiration. Yes, it was amazing. Remembering that this is a sacred Indian site and allowing everyone to experience it. It is an American fixture that we should all be proud of. It is a great place to teach out children about out past and the people who came before. It's ----. A monument for the future generation. Irrigation of the Southwest and Indian history. It is important for people to go to a place that makes them feel as small as they are. Nature made. Rare natural wonder that deserves to be protected and preserved and toured. Navajo sacred area.  Protect by President Taft as National Monument. It preserves the Native American culture that the U.S. was founded on. Prehistoric land forms. Art of nature-unique National wonder. The unique rock formations and all those who were here before. Rainbow Bridge is an important ""gift"" that we have to know and preserve. Important for geological explores and Native American history. Geology. Unique natural bridge, worthwhile destination. Natural history of our Nation and of the Navajo People. Ability to see a natural historical site.  Understanding of Navajo history-have to see for yourself-pictures don't show what you can see for yourself. Inspiring, but also teaches us to respect our awesome natural resources. Priceless. World renown tourist attraction due to impressive natural beauty. To preserve the unique American landscape. Important, significant to people in surrounding area.  Teaches us about the history of the land. Native American culture/history.  Natural beauty. Understanding history of Territory. Untouched beauty. Just to stay in touch with nature without human ----. Canyon, Rainbow Bridge, beautiful scene. Unique monument. Natural beauty and cultural meaning. Historical and spiritual. History-beauty. Rainbow Bridge-Fabulous. Awe inspiring National treasure.  Brings people from around the world to see the U.S. in a non-TV/Movie way. The natural beauty, untouched by man and used so many years ago by our ancestors. Freedom/nature. An arch is cool. Lake Powell itself-the water. Learned a lot about Rainbow Bridge and its history. Very great experience to teach our children about environmental conditions. Indian respect. Natural masterpiece, sacred ground. Aboriginal culture. Unity.  Keeping the beauty of Mother Nature alive so it can be shared with generation after generation. Power of nature.  And history. A part of our history.  Different cultures. Beauty of nature and history. ""The Arch."" Such a unique and beautiful, historical part of the country, plus the water ecology/storage aspect. The history of the Arch and its spiritual meanings. History with Navajo's. Protecting one of the natural wonders of the world.  Also showing respect to the Native American Indians since this was a religious spot. Rainbow bridge. It connects American people to the beauty and nature of the land. Showing the respect to Native American beauty as well as ---- ---- unique. National Leakage..... Places like this inspire us all.  Very beautiful...... A tribute to the Native Americans. There are things on this Earth that need to be preserved. The national significance of this park is to preserve the beauty while allowing visitors to admire it as well. Beautiful. It represents native American's culture and it is an interesting geological example. Beauty, recreation, history, culture.  Unique perspective only at Lake Powell. Preserve natures park. The majesty and history of this natural grandness. Home to generations before us and a natural habitat for dinosaurs. The beauty, serenity, antiquity, obligation of respect for first peoples. The beauty of the nature the bridge is awesome. Natural beauty, unlike anywhere else. Keep the rainbow bridge the way it is/was.  To preserve nature, to give everybody a chance to see this monument. To preserve the Indians beliefs. Protection of nature. Largest bridge in the world. Many people have stories here.  Hate to see  it change. So much to learn. Natural wonders should be protected, wild areas preserved. Native Americans protected this for many years.  We should do the same. Perfect place to get away from the outside world. Sacred to many Native American cultures-Many stories. Water management-public access and recreation. Beautiful place-worth preserving for everyone to enjoy. Natural beauty, creation. It is one of the amazing  wonders of out Country that brings income and jobs, besides the pure enjoyment of the beauty and variety of the land. This park is a national treasure that had to be preserved.  It is imperative that we protect our natural treasures! Very good. Unique combination of natural and cultural monument. Very significant.  Beautiful and majestic place. Please preserve. Epic!  Tells us about the heritage and also the information of these structures. Native American Heritage cultural significance. Natural beauty. Largest natural arch in the world, extremely impressive. Nothing else like it that I've ever seen. History of rock/canyon formation, dinosaurs! Opportunity to experience nature in a unique and special way. ""Living Museum"". Beauty and immense power of nature incredible arch (rainbow Bridge). Sacred land, history, beauty. Beautiful environment. The beauty is unsurpassed. The preservation of natural beauties and historical and religious site for natives. Lake Powell itself. Water. Nature and beautiful scenery. It's beauty. Masterpiece of nature. Preserving for the future. Rainbow bridge ranger Martinez gave an educational, interesting presentation. Love it the way it is-everything about it. Very important National Park system is amazing and a national treasury. Only one in the world. Access for all to amazing terrain. God's grand creation, natural geography preservation. To share the beauty and cultural aspects. Beautiful! Reminds us what the dessert looks like without a million lights (Vegas?) Totally unique geology-nothing quite like it. Yes.  It is a treasure. Beauty-Nature's playground. It's an iconic symbol of the west and is a reminder of the Indians who lived here.  Beautiful!! Water resource recreational opportunities. This bridge is a symbol of Native Americans sacred beliefs, and also symbolizes nature's awesome power and change. Beautiful, cultural exchange, amazing. Learning about history, culture and nature, park is water supply if needed for 24 million people. Preserve the beauty for future generations.  Part of our history and culture. It is fun to boat, hike and see the arch. This place is beautiful and unique and sacred-definitely worth protecting and allowing people to visit. Preserving holy ground.  Preserving awesome arch. Beauty, recreation, history. Natural history.  Too many things are technology driven. Preserving native holy grounds and nature ----. Culture and a break from the crazy lake. Protect and keep on defending it's natural and historical meanings. This part of Lake Powell is so beautiful and has a beauty like no where else on earth! It's a part of the national identity. In our national treasure. Preservation of Native American tradition and religion, as well as the beauty and power of earth. Preserving history and keeping enjoyment of ---- Absolutely beautiful. Best arch in the world. Sacred site and desert water storage. Unique land scape. Sacred place to Indians and native Americans and beautiful! Impressive scale. The respect of believers. Many traditions exist here, old and new. Preserving our national natural history and being able to appreciate it's beauty. Protect the unique environment and allow the next generation to visit the park as well. To protect for Navajo nation, build respect for Lake Powell.  Protect this beautiful place. Historic land marks, educational opportunities. Geo physical and cultural (native American's tribal lands and spiritual significance of bridge). It was another beautiful part of our honeymoon.  Staff went above and beyond."
56,Big Hole NB,BIHO,"Show the cost of manifest Destiny, to acknowledge flaws in the Federal Govt's actions and to honor the lives, on both sides, of the conflict. To remind us. From UK-and therefore difficult to say.  But I found it very moving. To inform the public the history and significance of the New Pearce Indians. Exceptionally significant. History must not be forgotten.  Learn and don't make the error of repeating sad history. The story of the Nez Perce and the overall history of the Native people's on this land. I feel this Park is very significant in helping all people to more fully understand the truth of cultural differences and beliefs. Great area to preserve for American and Indian History. Teaching history of Indians/Calvary to visitors. To remember the history between the U.S. Government and Nez Perce. This is a Memorial-rightly so. Tells true story of Native extinction attempts. To remind us of the plight of the Nez Pearce. Very educational and it's important to preserve this history. We need peace not war. To serve as a reminder of the events leading to the battle, the impact on the Nez Perca people, a means for the Nez Perce to honor their people. A memorial to the fallen of both sides.  The Native American perspective makes this unique and something worth preserving! Remember the Nex Perce side of the story. It tells the story of the Nez Perce and about the terrible acts that were inflicted against them.  This is a story that should be well known. Lesson of poor aggression. Trying to convey a message on human relations and how it can be improved.  Also how to keep our resources natural. To preserve history and educate. History of Nez Perce and effects of war. Great park, well run and managed. Truly appreciate this park and learning about the Nez Perce.  I will recommend it to other people we meet. History of two peoples and their struggles. Remember history and lessons learned or we are bound to repeat them. Telling the story of the native people's persecution by the U.S. government. A very important history-thanks. History of Chief Joseph. Priceless national historic and cultural significance on multiple levels. The history of native people is important for understanding both past and present events. Very nice. To preserve the battlefield to remember the history behind the event. Historical perspective. Importance of our history. Significant clash of culture.  Well presented. Just as important as any of our other history, this tells the story better than any I've heard.  I like to hear the native input. I feel as though I can hear and see them in the setting. Education about Indian Wars. Great to know what REALLY took place back in the day.  Extremely sad time for the NEZ PERCE. Memorial and to remember those lost and learn to forgive and remember the fallen. The significance to learn from the past and try to do better in the future. The treatment of Native Americans by the U.S. government of a period and the individual of the country. To learn about the culture of the Indian nation and how poorly our ancestors treated these fine people. The flip side of Manifest Destiny-the strength of intrinsic value of the native people here. History. Very informative. Aids in understanding of history. Priceless. Yes, the saga of the Nez Perce needs to be told and remembered. A memorial to a very sad time in our history. Will Abbot great park ranger. The memorial it represents to those who lost their lives in the battle between US army and Nez Perce. To show the history of the Native Americans and their culture. To understand the horrors of the Indian Wars. It was both moving and appropriate-it is significant in that it clearly illustrates the Nez Perce quest for freedom and out-maneuvered the U.S. Govt. for several months. A good start for the telling of the Native American viewpoint and experience. History of the Settlement of the West. Native Americans were defrauded and deceived by the Federal government. Beware of government promises. Increasing awareness and education of our history. Important history! It has great historical significance. Another example of white man's difficulty of living in harmony with people of different skin tone and culture, that education is necessary on multiple levels. Indian history, Nez Perce history. Very important.  Historical and humbling. Awareness of our history and treatment of the Native American part of our population. History of the Nez Perce people and the suffering and hardships they endured.  Very sentimental place. Historical learning. The overpowering of the white people in recognizing the rights of the Indians. Video we watched was excellent. I learned quite a bit of history today. We need to remember the ---- acts we as white people brought to the Native Americans.  Constantly giving and taking it away and they were ---- ----! Shows well how the natives wee so unfairly treated. National history, education for younger generations, appreciation of life during that time. Our hideous behavior towards Native Americans. Remembrance. The battle. Four of us visited from New Hampshire! History. Our history as it relates to conquering the native people and taking their lives and land. The sad effects of war and broken promises.  Will we ever learn? To show the history of the Nez Perce and the battle. Yes. Historical learning that has been forgotten. To remind us of our history, the good and the bad and to make sure that no one is forgotten. Very important. Education. Great history here.  Learned the national significance of the white's desire to expand and acquire land ownership as opposed to tribal Native American culture. To remember our past and celebrate our future. Understand the indigenous presence and forceful take over of this American land.  When is done, it's done, but we still need to be educated of past mistakes and nationally apologize. Remembrance of a time where so many died, needlessly.  Learn from the mistakes of the past. Good educational visit for grand children. Historical record not to be forgotten. The history of the American West. Excellent in presentation, extremely important part of history. It reminds us of the sobering reality of our violent history and the importance of peacefully moving forward, working together and respecting all people. One important example of the US govts failed Indian policy. To keep alive historical events and provide historical ---- ----. An important reflection on the consequences of Westward expansion. Learning about our history. We should not forget how we massacred an entire history, culture and people in the name of greed, money and arrogance. Remembrance of the fallen soldiers and native Americans. Great-nice to be 100. To teach the lessons that follow from greed and the arrogance of power.  I am ""White"", it's shameful what led to this Battle and what followed it. History of treatment of the First People. For every one to learn about this part of history. Indian Wars ---- the Civil War. To tell the story of the Battle and from both sides-so that moving forward, we as people of this Universe came together. This is history made real. Very interesting friendly Rangers. Cultural significance. Learning about interactions between Native Americans and the New Americans. To show others the mistreatment of the Naz ----. History of the Nez Perce and US violence against the indigenous ----. Placing history in a geographic and tangible context.  Understanding the truth of where our country comes from. Vital-The Nez Perce story is a perfect symbol and opportunity to comprehend the injustice of our policies. One of last Indian Wars. Important! The importance links to the history of both the Nez Pierce and history of the United States. It is a reminder of our relationship with the Nez Pierce and the sad history of the Battle of the Big Hole.  Thankful it is here for others to learn. Accurate history, in place so it's not forgotten.  My family is Nez Perce and we did not know about this place. So it is not forgotten. To show how powerful is the spirit of people to be able to move when we want. To show the battles of the immigrants and Indians. It is a ---- reminder of man's inhumanity-sadly we haven't progressed help and in our killing efficiency but we need to be aware of history, even if we fail to learn from it. Our history and the need to respect others. Teaching the truth about the treatment of our natives!! If we forget it may happen again-greatest homicide in history not acknowledged as such. A more accurate history presentation. The horrible way we treated our brothers and sisters. Important to relay information about Native Americans to the general public. Indian and U.S. conflicts in the 1860's. Very significant to have ---- last and track history of our nation. Excellent presentation of NEZ Perce battle and struggle. How the government mistreated ALL Indians! Historical perspective. History. Keep the history alive so we don't forget! Our history-so we don't repeat past. To learn to respect other cultures and land and people and preserve them. Very important site to remember and the history that happened here. An honest remembrance of history of not learn, to be repeated.  Truth telling. Learning history-developing tolerance. Movie was very informational. Rangers were first class-informative, helpful, friendly. Great. Preserving history of NEZ Pierce tragedy. The collision of 2 cultures and the hope of successful healing for all. The historical perspective of the area and it's Indian and non-Indian settlers. What the whites did to Indians. The historical aspect.  It is important to know this. We need to remember and not be so greedy. Educational, experience teaching about the Nex Perce culture. Gives people a much more well-rounded view of 1 conquest of the west. History and culture of Nez Perce bands. How the government treated Indians poorly! Indian Wars. The realization of what happened in our attempt to civilize our nation.  I am very sad about the lives that were sacrificed to ----. To inform others and keep history alive. To tell of the Nez Perce and their near extinction at Big Hole. Very important to the people of the world to come to an understanding and acceptance of the culture differences of people. A vivid and fair presentation of a tragic battle. To illustrate the dark chapters in our nation's growth alongside the bright to give recognition to the injustice to the Native American. Yes-important for this site to be preserved for both native and non-native Americans. We need to return our history and the history of the people who were here before. Fairly significant. Outstanding ---- of history learning opportunity. How thing were and why they were.  Not always right. This park is of immerse significance, because it tells the story of the Indian Wars in 2 concise, thoughtful and sensitive way.  And 2 SPECIFIC way. Very to understand genocide by whites. To introduce the ---- ---- to the public and tell their beautiful but sad story.  Thank you! Great interpretation from the host!  Thank you! There things are to be remembered.  We need to have things like this to learn from our past. Memorial and historical presentation of a complex and still relevant issue, tubal relocation, ---- , violence. Big part of our history, very moving, missed trail to tipi's due to maintenance. Understanding the Nez Perce history in this area. History of white/Native American relationships. Unjust treatment Native Americans. Highly relevant to understanding settling of the western US and the impact of that on Native people-WONDERFUL SITE and programs. History of conflict as the U.S. expanded Westward displacing Native Peoples. Highlights the transgressions against the native peoples, but also the determination of settlers to advance their idea of the direction the country should take. Important battle that highlights the U.S. government's world view vs. that of the Native American's at that time. Important battle. Related history of our developing nation regarding westward expansion and at best clumsy interaction with native peoples. To honor and remember our nation's history and the people.  To show respect to all those that made the nation we are today. Preserving the historical significance and magnificence of this area.  As important as Gettysburg and other NP's know for their beauty.  Big Hole is both. Native American history is essential to maintain in this country.  This park does that. An understanding of what occurred here and a further understanding of how Native Americans were treated by settlers and military."
57,Boston Harbor Islands NRA,BOHA,"Authentic recreation. None. I should have listened better I'm sorry. I do not think this place is of national significance.  It may be a nice state or city park; however, there is no reason for federal involvement. It's a civil war ----. Loved our visit.  Emily is amazing and made our stay awesome! ---- No idea. Leper colony/glue factory. Easily accessible oasis in Boston. Makes the park/national treasures more accessible to our citizens and visitors. Brings alive the seafaring history of Boston.  Also good for appreciating the significance of our clean harbor and the natural beauty of the islands. Kids love it. Tourism. Learn about history. It's beautiful! ---- Historical cheve of fort.  Beautiful sights of Boston and harbor. The history of the park and the reservation of this land for people to escape the city, thank you. Preserved history, nature. Go patriots! Very relevant to Boston ---- which is national history too.  Boston harbor islands are very easy for visitors to get to. It used to be trash is now a treasure. Just found out about it. Lovely trip here, national parks are a treasure. It is a historic park in Boston harbor. 0 ---- Beach was very rocky, but otherwise fun day. History of Boston harbor, history of the island (gambling!  Horse rendering!  Big Dig!) I multi use over the years dating back to native peoples natural area close to Boston. The varied uses the island had before its current use. Important history of defense against potential invasions over the course of 150 yrs.  Interesting geological formation. It shows how trash can be transformed into beauty.  And is very accessible to city livers. Military and cultural history. View of Boston skyline, history as Boston's trash dump. History in the Rev. War and others. Geological formation unlike any other people in the USA. Great American history. To show the importance of a mantime ecosystem, how we should care for it and appreciate it. History behind the island. Offers access to historic sites such as Fort Warren as well as a unique view of other Boston historic sites, looking at the city from the ocean. ---- ---- A glimpse of island environment and life in NE that is unique to this area. Amazing recreation area. Beautiful place!  Thank you! Free for all to enjoy equally. Heritage, recreational, history of Boston. Historical preservation ---- ---- open green spell for American family and visitors. I feel that it ----- of a reminder of haw hard we fought in the past-to see this place. THANK YOU. The harbor islands are very significant and the land was made out of recycled big dig dirt. It is a landmark of US history dating back before the US was settled and follows the development of Boston. It represents the salacious freedom preventing through every pore of my body, just as Lewis and Clark felt upon seeing the Pacific. Very significant. It's significant that the island is environmentally and societally better now. Nice place to relax. Colonialism? Little known part of Boston's history. Reminder of beauty. I've heard the word but don't what it means. It is near Boston where it all started.  Beautiful. Civil war relevance. Significance to Boston history, and Big Dig project. Trash disposal. Historical, nice place to spend time outside. It shows how something that was once considered waste can be transformed back into something useful and beautiful. Significant. Hiking, nature, proximity to city, views of the city of Boston. Revolutionary war island/castle/forts. Good historical ----. Remind us of different ---- 50 years ago. Preserve history of islands to offer public access. To teach and remember history. Union fort, historical site of Civil war times, humane treatment of prisoners. Recreation, environmental preservation. Views of Boston!  And history of defense. Preservation of Boston Harbor environment! Historical preservation, beauty and accessibility via public transportation.  Accessibility is really important to me. Boston is the birth place of this modern country and the harbor and islands are a key part of the cities history. Preserving a natural area near by a city is always a great thing! Restoration of nature, multiple uses through history conservation, clean up of nature. History of Boston thru years (geologic development of city and current reclamation and use). Preserving and maintaining your environment. Very important to have this resource. Restoration of degraded areas.  Boston Harbor central to history! Great scenery, clean water. Recreational history. Reclamation of land, garbage dump to useable park. Ability to enjoy outdoor scenery close to city. History and recreation (respite from the city). You get to look at Boston! A key link to any of the nations most historical and finest cities, Boston. Cool. Defines history of Boston. History. It's location in the Boston harbor and it's history as to how it evolved into what it is today. Natural beauty and an opportunity to explore nature. The history shows how people coped. Deals with our nation's history, esp. wars.  The forts provided protection for Boston Harbor. History of the island is very intersecting. It tells the history of how Boston was protected. Popularization of history is significant. A true emblem of local government's commitment to conservation, recreation and collaboration with other state agencies. Unique features with a historical area (Boston Harbor). The Lady in Black story! Great experience. History of America.  Lunch area ---- on Spectable, should have vending for water. It has a lot of interesting history. Recreational area. It's rare twin drumlin.  An island formed by Glaciers.  It has served multi benefits to the public. Much history and geology and natural beauty here. Rich history of Civil War, natural beauty, great way to see Boston from a new view.  Good deal for $17. My understanding was more of a geological significance rather than historical. Its role in the Civil War! Defending FREEDOM with artillery fire. Ongoing part of U.S. history.  Good example of environmental work. Education about Fort Warren. Civil War prison. Military heritage. This park is significant because it was an important fort and was very fun to explore and learn about. No idea. The boat tour on the way over gave great historical info. Fort Warren was a major coastal fort. Recreation features and opportunities for all. Historical-very interesting. The history of a nation divided.  The realization that it must have been a great sacrifice to live in such accommodations.  War is terrible. This park has important military significance as well as cultural importance. Always good to learn a bit more about our history. Barrier Island, lots of historical archeology. History and sights. The history. War history. For the welfare of the environment. I agree. Historic land mark, place for kids/families to spend their free ---- (recreational and significance), nature preservation. Central to Boston's growth and history of also turned around environmentally. Interesting history, easy escape from city life. None.  Let the commonwealth of ---- manage it. Used as big big refuge nice film explained all. History, education. We believe the national parks are a very positive benefit to the citizens of the USA.  We are looking forward to our next visit. Ft. Warren was used as protection/prison for confederate soldiers. Historic value in relation to the history of Boston also very beautiful and nice get away from summer in the city. The national significance of this park is it's own history, cultures and natures on this island. Interesting to learn about ---- proximity to city, ---- far away history of protection of ----. Islands/beach accessible to all who are buy ferry ticket.  Respite from city great views interesting history. Natural beauty. Great! Historical ---- on ---- important spanning 100 years.  ---- investment in civil war. Proximity to a major city. The beach. Enjoying the islands nature trails, ---- by ----/industry. Can we go in the rangers hut? Even ugly is beautiful. Natural beauty. Good will. To come together. yes. It points to the futility of war, imprisonment and punitive detention. This park is a monument to the military history of Boston Harbor and the United States, especially in regards to the civil war. Historical building. The nation significance of this park is the history and views. For Bostonians to have a fresh all open outdoor area to do recreational activities. Historical relationship to Boston and recreational. Recreational activity for New England residents. Not sure about national, but I think this park has impact on telling Boston's past. History of civil war. ---- History of Boston. It is a mark of the unique intersection of man and nature. To serve and protect Boston. Helps to tell the story of the civil war.  Shows the strong history of the island. It was an example of how people lived. Yes-I've always wanted to take this trip, now that I have, I was not disappointed but delighted. Is it significant because it was a landfill?  Why is that significant?  That sounds mean but I honestly not sure. The park is of little national significance in my opinion.  The historical artifacts present on the beach are pieces of glass left room the islands landfill days not a historical ----. History of civil war very neat and ---- well done. War time history. Fascinating window into Boston's history. Good example of environmental clean up this is a beautiful site. Important to use to find peace and a place to relax. 0 I would say it's history. Recreation and ---- ----. Military history of several wars and ----. An important part of Boston's maritime history. Good to learn about Boston history without dealing with freedom trail crowds. Historical/educational. To show the history of Boston and it's harbor. Historical land mark. The fort that's on the park. Very significant. Massachusetts invited America! Sorry not sure. It was ----. It was turned into something beautiful after being used for trash. It's beauty and history. Good example of the NPS value as a source of public recreation, education and outreach. Gorgeous to get out of town without using a car!  I'm out here for the boat experience! Loved the fort. Provides excellent opportunity for outdoor activities, readily accessible to Boston residents.  Supports environmental protections. ----, beautiful. Boston's history of the civil war and efforts to protect the harbor great! To swim, to hike, to bond with friends and families. History of Boston. Great access from the city! I don't know but it's pretty. Protecting Boston. Recreation/nature reserve. Significance of island history and story, a spectacular view of the Boston skyline and Boston harbor. One of our nations oldest forts and first line of protection. Civil war/WWII Each of these islands is an ---- to a particular ---- of the countries history.  Visiting there is like taking a journey through ----. Historical land mark now for recreational use by the public. Historical perspective from ice age to present. History of Boston. It's history to/of Boston makes it a significant land mark. Nature speaks directly to you, history doesn't, was disappointed in presentation of Boston during CW.  So much more you can do. The parks history. Very important the whole BHA's are an historical part of the Boston ----. The history and the conservation success story. It serves as a memorial to the events of our past. Home/mainland security. History, beauty, nature. A piece of history and wilderness in Boston Harbor.  Early American history how the colonists lived, native plants and animals. A fast that ---- over 100 years and 4 wars, saw so much come through it's walls. Minimal. Military/defense. It is a ---- of the big dig. It's important because we can learn about history and culture and the evolution of the time. It has a lot of our history and preserved as it was.  People can experience it in a tactile way. WW 2 protection. Prime position of fort in Boston Harbor, civil war prison.  Most valuable in accessibility to city. Best cupcakes in the world (even though we didn't have any) (they need to be free). Very important historical and educational site. There's a fort!  (And not the pillow ---- kind). Although not it's intention it was used for confederate POW's.  It was also used in 1812 war. Defense of Boston Harbor and military service. A good historical site. ---- islands though ---- may be ---- seeing are full of ---- ---- and ----. Historical significance seems well described (celebrated staff at Peddocks=outstanding!) The history that dates back thousands of years. It's significant to the nation."
58,Harpers Ferry NHP,HAFE,"A good way to teach visitors about history in the way it played out. Cataclysm of John Brown, civil war battles/fortifications, natural features, civil rights and storer college campus. Important historically. Abolitionist movement/civil war/equality/industrialization/""manifest destiny"" Lewis/Clark. It is a historical sight and part of the AT trail. John Brown!  Loved seeing the fort! It is a historical place.  It is wonderful to have these treasures restored for future generations. The role it plays in the civil war time. To preserve the history of the early U.S., particularly during the civil war. Very significant!  Geographically stunning with the ---- of the rivers and historically interesting with it being directly in the middle of the civil war. ----. Key spot in the civil war. Important historical event that had an effect on our nation. So important to keep history alive for our kids etc, this was a great experience for all of us in the family! It teaches future generations the history of what happened in the civil war and industrial revolution. U.S. history John Brown and Civil War history. Good educational resource. To teach about life around the Civil War. Important American civil rights history important geography. Rebellion against slave ownership. Everything was very well done. Raid on federal arsenal and involvement in the Civil War. One of the best national parks that I've ever visited. American history. Civil War. Large historical significance. Fantastic experience! Central to the Civil War.  John Brown's Rebellion.  Part of the AT. Civil War/Civil Rights. History is remarkable.  Enjoyed the visit.  I will definitely come again.  It is a clean well kept park. Civil war connections, proximity to go to path and Appalachian trail. The park has so much to teach us about the strategic area, the battles and the people. John Brown began the abolition of slavery movement as his actions were the catalyst and many other important things. Heritage.  Habitat.  History. It reminds us of our heritage and what our fore fathers endured to ensure life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Civil War importance, John Brown.  Also beautiful hiking. Very significant due to John Brown's raid, Civil War activity and Lewis's purchase there. Major Civil War site ----. Civil War history.  I was surprised to see so much African-American history, yet the visitors were mainly all white. It's importance to the beginning of the civil war and history of force to how growth of the economy to US. Historical importance. Historical importance. The significance is great-it's important to learn the history of our nation. To preserve nature and inform us about the history of harper's ferry. The attempt by John Brown to start an uprising to free the slaves, and the importance of the location (evidenced by the number of times it changed hands during the civil war). Civil War era historical importance. It gives the young a sense of their heritage and history of their country. Site of significant ---- event, civil war significance-but also beautiful site at the confluence of the rivers. Location, historical event. Provides information about a decisive moment in the nations history."
59,Olympic NP,OLYM,"Being able to experience it's natural beauty without interference from people-life wild. Preserving the flora and fauna of such a diverse ecosystem within the park. The unique rain forest and the unspoiled coastal beaches. Varied bio domes from Alpine to Coastal with incredible Rain Forests and incredible trees.  We need to save the trees and Mt. ----. The heritage and legacy must continue for future generations to enjoy. Majestic sights and things to see. Preservation of natural habitats. Very beautiful land, not seen in other parts of the country. Beautiful! The geologic/biologic significance of the area. Easy to access recreational beauty-coastal mountains responsible for North American rainforest-breathtaking natural beauty. Thanks. Beauty, protection of wilderness. You can drive to a great overlook with people who are unable to walk. Access to protected coastline.  Very diverse park-mountains, rainforest, beach all in one park. Great significance. Incredible beauty, diverse ecosystems, very valuable. Important. Preservation. Yes. I really enjoyed the vast mountains.  Those are views you cannot get every day and I think they are important to maintain. Education of need for wild spaces. Clean, accessible, PURE nature well protected, well administered.  Thank you. It's just awesome, love nature and there is nothing like Olympic Peninsula. Old growth forest. Preservation and education. Protecting nature. Unique and beautiful. Wilderness and history of area. Seeing all those peaks and glaciers, I would never have thought that the view could be so awesome.  I totally enjoyed it.  So did my wife. The Native American culture. Beautiful, undeveloped wilderness! Mountains, lakes, shore, animals, trees, undeveloped spaces. Amazing natural wilderness with great diversity. Freedom, exploration and American spirit. Multiple diverse ecosystems of note: also, an area for recreation and to be in nature. The beauty of the wild coastline, the breathtaking mountains and fabulous water falls. Variety at ecosystems. A unique, diverse environment. Preserving the rain forest. Unique and varied and contrasting ecosystems, accessibility to visitors. Preservation of precious national nature heritage. Mountains, rain forests, beaches, tide posts, bio-diversity, has everything. Natural beauty. Preservation of old growth and rain forest. The park protects an ecosystem not found anywhere close in our nations-the rainforest.  It also preserves a beautiful coastline and keeps it from development. Old growth. The ocean life-whales-tidal pools, etc.. Amazing area/wilderness species protection. Natural unspoiled beauty. Preserving the coast, rainforest, mountains and all that live in it is always significant.  Our parks are our treasures. Preserving a beautiful and unique environment for future generations. Preserving the west coast ocean, shore and forest ecosystems for all generations. Look out over hurricane ridge or go in the rain forest. It's natural beauty, isolation, and wild life. All national parks are good for social policy and equally. Preserve nature. Natural and tribal history (past and present). Conservation, protection. Self evident-great oceans and forests and mountains. Wild life and plants, oceans and mountains wonderful rangers who spend time with my children. Great!! Preserving natural beauty. Wow!  So many different environments; appreciate that this wilderness is preserved for the future! Most NW Park in country ocean. Endless-unless saved so much will be lost. Great get away. Huge. It is beautiful!  Yes very significant for learning about our natural world! Preserve wonderful areas for future generations. Preserving our wilderness areas for public enjoyment and education. Protect wildlife and the trees, mountains and ocean.  The views are awesome. The national significance of this park in my opinion is that it is one of the few wild places for Americans to discover themselves. To show the original grandeur of this amazing nation.  For the children to wonder what it must have been like to have first discovered this area and traveled west. Beauty in wilderness unique perspectives. Show. Beautiful. To preserve and protect a diverse array of places and ecosystems. Climate, culture, animals, topography, rainforest, tide pools. Diversity of western landscapes, ---- coast, rainforest. The protections of the different ecosystems. Untouched beauty. Availability of temperate rainforest for public access and education. Protected unique ecosystems.  Opportunity for public exposure/education. Tremendous-unique and wonderful place. Birdie was great.  A wealth of knowledge and information. Preservation of nature and trees. Diversity of coastline and ----. The various eco systems within the park.  The natural beauty must be protected for future generations to enjoy. The incredible beauty of this nation never ceases to amaze me.  The beauty of this park is breath taking. Preservation of marine, woodland, and the life thereof for new and future generations. Wonderfully informative as to how this part of the world was ----.  The sheer magistery of the mountains! Unique geology, stunning beauty. Our wide variety of beauty, scenery without development to mar the view. Preserving the physical beauty of this great nation of ours. The beauty of Jehovah God's creation.  All glory goes to our creator! Unique ecosystem. Nature and its environment are essential to the soul.  Make America great again, with parks! Good for the whole family.  It's great to keep in touch with nature! National Park system connects America's past to future generations. So enjoy beautiful creation and reflect on how this could never be achieved by man.  Gift from our creator Jehovah. Preserve and share natural beauty. Multiple ecosystems within same park specifically the temperate rain forest.  Native American life/history. Forest, streams and lakes, geology. To preserve nature and to share with future generations."
60,Edgar Allan Poe NHS,EDAL,"EAP has a great cultural significance! Edgar Allan Poe set the way for all American writers to do their best and commit to your dream. The house ""the Raven"" was written in by the first ---- of the horror stories.  Need I say more. Education as a very important American author. Nice to see where some literature from a great american author was written, learn more about his life, and it may spark more interest in Poe. Home of Edgar Allan Poe ---- Phil-ground ---- author who established several literary genres-very interesting life. Because Poe is an important American author, his home is right to be visited and managed by the park system. History of one of the nation's greatest writers who gave birth to a literary genre. Poe is studied by all students.  Our literary history is important. History, beauty, unchangeable. Cultural, architectural, literary arts. To celebrate the accomplishments of a literary genius in our great nation. It immortalizes one of our nations most precious literary minds-a treasure that should not be forgotten. It's important to honor one of our literary heroes! It was once the home of one of America's greatest authors. Ensuring the preservation of the history of one of the most important literary figures in modern history. Real life history of one of America's great authors. EAP was very significant to not only America's literacy advances, but across the world as well.  His work will live in infamy. This space inspired E.A. Poe to write.  What is arguably his greatest literary works. Reminding kids of how important the owls are. To learn about the life of Edgar Allen Poe. Poe was an incredibly important author.  It is critical that we maintain whatever connection we can to his life and the lives of others like him. Literary genius, unique approach with the bare walls, but matches Poe's genre of stories, exhibit sound systems need upgrading. It provides great insight into the life of one of the most renowned writers in the world. The literary genius of an American icon. Edgar Allen Poe's work is a national treasure and his life story is fascinating. To establish the importance of ---- as an American literacy figure and to understand how his works speak also to our age today. Historical. Preserving literary history. Very significant. Literary history. Historical significance of Edgar Allen Poe his contribution to literary greatness. EA Poe was an amazing writer, one who everyone knows about.  It's important to keep that tradition alive. Edgar Allan Poe was a great American writer.  Some of his best stories were written from this home in Philadelphia. Important history of writing/an influential man. Inform public about talented writer/poet. He was a famous author. To remember and learn of one of American's literary geniuses. Great piece of hidden history. Poe is one of countries most famous authors. This is a great inner city location with an eighteen hundreds appearance and feel.  Edgar Allen Poe's memory and ---- should be preserved. Preservation of literacy history. Education of future generations. Home of one of the country's best writers. Good exhibit. Well worth maintaining. Only standing have occupied by a very significant US ---- the city of Philadelphia. It's important to learn the history of literacy icons. To preserve the memory and legacy of Edgar Allen Poe so he is not forgotten. Edgar Allen Poe is a giant American and probably global literature. It is a celebration of the life and works of an American literary pioneer. Seeing one of the houses that Poe lived in was a wonderful experience.  The staff was friendly, helpful, and informative. Major influence on my family. Wonderful opportunity for people to learn more about someone we all grew up either reading or heard of.  Sets a great mood. Edgar Alan Poe-historical/literary.  Very interesting-nice creepy old house-fits with Poe! Remembering the happiest moments of Poe's life. Poe was able to surmount many obstacles, the same way our national parks have and are doing. Edgar Allen Poe is a literary ----. Clarifying the life of an often misrepresented American icon. Understanding and learning about Poe and his life is important for cultural and historical appreciation. To better understand the history of one of the nations great past authors. As an Edgar Allen Poe fan, this was an enlightening experience.  Fantastic information was provided by staff and the film we saw. Where Poe created historic works and preserves the legacy of one of our great authors. Poe was both a literary genius and the embodiment of working hard to try to meet his dreams. Home of one of America's most iconic writers. Gives background on a not to well known period of American life. This ""park"" offers great insight into the life of the well-known American author. Edgar Allen-Poe. He wrote many influential stories and poems that are worth recognizing."
61,Martin Van Buren NHS,MAVA,"Great tour. I think is is important for youth and younger generations to understand what started our country. Learned about the Great Compromise.  Great to see his personal things.  Appreciated learning about culture and lifestyle. Honor our 8th president. Honors local boy who made good!  Provides hands on significance to the long history of our nation. Presidents home very important to our nations history. VanBuren was an important political figure often overlooked. Former home of Martin Van Buren, important figure in politics, as well as former President. President's home; impact on political parties; 3rd party candidate. To preserve our past history of Presidents for future generations to learn from. Beginning of modern Presidency.  Scene of many significant events.  Example of life in that era, etc. I live in the area of Kinderhook, NY, so am proud of the fact that Pres. MVB was living here!  Important to national and NY history. Historical and cultural. Any land belonging to a US historical figure is important. Preserve history. View into politics of era. 0 Preserving presidential history. It commemorates an important president. History is the most important for a democratic country.  The presentation was extremely informative and significant. Preserving the history of a president born in the area. Good for understanding politics of the time. It keeps us aware of our history and how they lived and contribution and influence on us. Great guide, magnificent preservation. Martin Van Buren was a quietly influential president. History of how political party system developed by Van Buren. To teach about Martin Van Buren-little known president. Especially in an election year great to learn more about past president.  National Parks a treasure! Historical-very interesting his significance in political history. It teaches people about an often overlooked president. The more we learn about history in its original context, the better we should understand where we are today. Former president house, mid-19th century history. Presidential home. Very significant!  Didn't realize but your tour guide, Chris Ciumonei, was fantastic!  Tied everything together. One hundredth anniversary!  Presidents are important!  Van Buren is underrated. It provides a good piece of history. I think it has high national significance. Great historical significance.  Wonderful park staff.  Tour guide Tony was very, very knowledgeable. So important for children and adults. Displays Dutch influence and political considerations of the era through MVB's story. To provide an opportunity to educate the public about Van Buren and his politics, and the politics of the time. History was great. Life of a president outside the Whitehouse. Preserving history and personal life of American president. That he made Democratic and Third Party and all his contributions. Well preserved presidential library. Significant.  Interesting. Greg was awesome! To learn more about our 8th president. All U.S. Presidents should have this type of place, recognition, park, historical park.  Could also be used as a nature preserve and cultural learning ctr. Presidential home and significant Dutch ancestral history.  Would have liked more focus on the latter."
62,Alcatraz,GOGAa,"It has a great history and lots of things to learn. Historical. Historical landmark.  Very important part of pop culture.  History of America. To be able to take a closer look at a maximum security prison that is located in the  middle of the Bay area and the birds that live there. Part of America's history of our justice system. Relevance of freedom in USA (and rights). Heritage and history. A place of distinct interest both nationally and internationally, and one of surprisingly great beauty. To house prisoners. Never give up on HOPE. I enjoyed our trip to Alcatraz and the guided tour. BEAUTIFUL! History. History of area before and after the federal prison. History!! Preserving the history. Important historical landmark. It's very historic.  People should know about one of the best escapes in history. History of Alcatraz is amazing. Military fortress and the prison, as well as the famous prisoners. Very informative, interesting. Infamous prison. History and learning. Historical importance of use as a prison. History. It's an important part of history of the American criminal justice system. Shows the history of the prison system. Historical value, interesting. Nature and the building. American history-intriguing. History of island, military history, Native American history. Improved facilities for the prisoner and how this institution has progressed in 2016. Military protection, wildlife (bird sanctuary), education. A great piece of history. History of San Francisco. History of the bay and prison. The audio tour. Historic experience. Heritage and historical. Freedom. Yes, very significant. Natural beauty and history. USA part of history. Historical landmark. Military base.  Housed prisoners occupied by Indians. Over the decades it has had its multiple functions in the history of SF and the U.S. The prison. History, nature. The history of Alcatraz. Holds a lot historical value. Excellent.  From changes in the penitentiary system to learning of notorious U.S. Citizens and love our national park system! The cells; how the inmates lived. History and conservation. The history of Alcatraz and the wildlife preserve. Very significant.  Historical and fascinating. Great learning experience. It is awesomtastic. Historical and recreational. Historical value not only because of it being a prison but also a fort and home to American Indians. Historical tribute to a landmark. It is a significant part of American history. Keeping an interesting piece of US history alive. Prison history of the USA. To share the history of ---- and the experiences of the residents. Historical value. History it comes with. It's really important because is one piece of the park. Mostly it's historical value. A historical one. We are a Nation that imprisons too many and treats prisoners poorly with very little ""real"" rehabilitation. Significance of issues in the past and today. It showcases our past prison history and the importance of the island. It's history. Interesting history. History. History of area, and Prison System. Very important historical location. To learn. History to be preserved for future generations. History preserved. It's wildlife and prison history. That it was one of the most important Federal Penitenaries and is a symbol of the City of San Francisco. Good historical lesson for my children. Part of our history. Education and for remembrance. Learning about the history. It is of great importance. 0 Shows history. Historical. Tell of the history of law enforcement, American criminal history and Native Americans. Flowers, birds. History of Bureau of Prisons and of America in general. History of the island. History.  Birds. California history, Gold Rush history, Fed/Indian history. Very significant part of U.S. history. Lots of different aspects-U.S.. History-Indians, Penitinary, Fort, etc. Historical and cultural significance. History. History. Learning and educational. Piece of history. The history it has accumulated was the past hundreds of years in both a military fortress and as a prison holds great significance to the U.S. and California. The history of our Federal Prison System. The Park was established to in prison ---- and try to reform them. History and uniqueness. Ranger needs pay raise. High significance, very famous land mark. Parks history. Prison history well known and important.  NPS should promote more about Indian occupation. History of prison. Historical. The audio program is very good! History and ----. Historic value. Don't do the crime if you can't do the time.  Don't do it. A great tribute to America and every visitor that comes here.  I am from Sweden and it was a great experience. History. Great history. Good history. Alcatraz reflects many of the sociological changes in the US, especially of the West.  From military outpost to prison to site of Native American protest. Historical monument. It has been maintained out on an island which is cool. History of penitentiary. Yes, good to see it being improved and providing education of our past. Excellent. History. The fact that it's history parallels the history of the country makes it's significant.  I am some what troubled by the fact that people find criminals so interesting. The significance of Alcatraz is a 3 fold, 1. part of our establishment of the state of California, 2. Prison history and present of the US, 3. Native American pride. History of CA and the West Coast.  The federal prison system and a very unique prison. How this ""rock"" evolved over the years is extraordinary. Our history. The jail. Unique location and history. Historical significance of prison reform history important to see the lack of restorative justice to what it can not do for people and inmates. The history of the prison and view of San Francisco and Golden Gate. Birds. US history. Very significant. History. Highlights the significance of the history it provides. It captures a time in America and its national thoughts on crime and the fees of it. It's part of history. It's history and anything-good or bad-that one can learn from it. The history through decades. The cultural significance and changing attitudes throughout its lifetime. Interesting to see the development of the prison system but also the changing uses of the island. Security, protection, progress at the time. Preservation of historical landmark that provides knowledge of the times. History less for our children. History. Marks shift in altitude to imprisonment. Reflection of historical effect of depression. American social studies. A historic know tourist location. It's history in the U.S. It feels different than any other prison. Historic relevance, educational value. America ---- system. Centering from history. Interesting and important part of history. Conservation of history, unique ---- close experience. Also it's special, beautiful, a habitat worth protecting. Historic. It's history. Historical value. Bird protection. Maximum security prison. The ---- How they survived, how they lived. In my opinion this park is an important piece of American history. Respect and ---- that never would get lost. No idea. History concerning U.S. prison system. Historical value, part of escape myth lot of birds and ---- very interesting. Civil War history and prison history. U.S. history, S.F. history. History as military base and max security. History. Preserving history. Historical heritage. Really interesting, unique experienced, ---- office ---- on the audio file. Great historical place. History. Modern history, people are still alive that have seen multiple changes of this park and in use. The historic value is exceptional. History. Good opportunity to learn history of this place. Significance related to the Native Americans. I still also believe that the history of its being fort then federal prison-largest in nation is a draw to visitors from all over. America's history. Historical info. History, ---- environment. A historical landmark. History with great views of city and bridge. Very useful, national treasure. Rich history. Just interesting not that significant just amazing location. History and education about flora and fauna. Because I could feel a little bit how the rules is important in this country. Just how many historic things happened here. Very informational, great views. Loved every minute. I think personally-the military aspect is small.  As a prison it is more significant.  Don't care about the Indian stand. Audio guide tour poor!  Very confusing and disorganized.  Station's should be numbered. The history and location. Absolutely. Historical, unique. Military defense and prison to protect people from extremely dangerous criminals. History preservation. The prison. History, cultural. Maintaining a connection to your history. History. Historical aspect. Very important history. Strong-interesting cultural significance and ---- icon. Tourist attraction. Our history. State prison. I'm not sure, sorry. As Belgian tourists we enjoyed learning about and experiencing the history of the island! Federal prison with lots of recent history relevant to the prison system and the Civil Rights Movement. History. The former prison. Historical. Historical importance. Glimpse into the past of our penitentiary system. Hmmmm.  It's more just interesting then a national significance, in my opinion. To learn and understand about the past.  Very important. History of SF. Group tour-fun! Heritage."
63,Carlsbad Caverns NP,CAVE,"The caves are unique in the U.S. and the world.  Additionally, the ---- desert ecosystem is unique to many visitors. The caverns are a magnificent spectacle and a natural wonder extremely unique. Opportunity to teach public about caverns and wildlife there.  Hopefully learn to protect and conserve resources. I loved being able to tell my son the history about the caverns and how our president came to visit them a week before his first visit and he had a blast. A geological treasure. One of natures awesome treasures one of the great natural wonders of the world. Protect natural landscape. It's very unique. The presence of an amazing cavern for people to explore (Thank you for making it free for kids!) I was impressed with the rangers at the bat flight program who swiftly removed those with ---- Thank you for enforcing the rules! The geological significance. Tremendously significant. The saves are a natural wonder every American shows see at least once. Should be a source of pride. So unique and ----. A natural wonder to be enjoyed and learned from. Educational entertaining. Wonderful. Amazing land form geological history. To see God's amazing beauty! Largest cave. Our family place. Keeping nature available to future generations. Park is well preserved and attention to natural state and WHY not to touch, make noise, etc.. Heritage and cultural contributions. Great learning opportunity for kids about the earth. To enjoy nature, not a screen. Caverns, caves. How wildlife contributes to farming (bats). It is one of a kind. Inform about Carlsbad and its historical info. To share a monument that has been around for a very long time. Education of youth, recognizing how important the preservation of these natural wonders are, learning about biology and geology. Lots of history around.  It's beautiful. Largest cavern in the western hemisphere. Excellent work was completed to make this accessible to the public.  Well done! For everyone to experience the natural beauty. History of area. Preserving nature's art. Tremendous value in teaching people of all ages earth's history. Shows you the beauty of the earth! Very unique, very beautiful, one of a kind. Just how connected the U.S. is-the significance of what was, what is and what will continue to happen.  I pray this is protected forever. Lovely. Overall wonders of nature!  God is great! The cave. The worries of the world underground.  It's not every day you can experience ---- of the natural wonders of the world. Native species. Natural wonders of the world!  Natural history/education. Giving people the opportunity to learn and appreciate a huge natural beauty without having to be spelunkers. Amazing to see new things. Historical. High-a wonderful geological learning area. A place to see what Mother Nature has in store for U.S..  Very educational and interesting. It is extremely unique.  I have never seen anything like it.  It is very interesting. Preserve and share the natural beauty of Carlsbad Caverns for future generations. To preserve the beauty of these caves and keep on showing them to people that otherwise would only see it on TV. A great wonder of the world. Very significant.  Great learning experience! The natural rock formations. Scientific exploration. Beauty, nature, peace. Education value. Most spectacular cave in the country. Caves are awesome! To remind everyone there is more under their feet than dirt-beautiful. Enjoyed. If you have 2 elevators, use them-2 hour wait too much. To protect the caves and their unique eco system. That is is preserved and protected by our nation for many to all and value. Preservation of fragile natural wonders and wildlife. Part of this nations beauty. The park is a national treasure, an amazing work of God. To view, learn, and enjoy the history and creation of our earth and protect it for the future. Very iconic, boosts economy from tourism. Eternal preservatory of a unique natural resourced. Impressive space.  An introduction to exploration, equally enjoyable for all ages, staff emphasis being helpful rather than over bearing, historic significance, brilliant ----. Natural phenomenon that must be protected an shared with future generations. Its a one of a kind ecological wonder. The park, cavern, and eco system are a national treasure, unlike any other. This area has preserved acts of nature that is a wonder for all.  The caverns provide a peaceful, beautiful place for people to appreciate. The ---- in whole all the ---- and rocks shows people how great mother nature and God is on this earth. The preservation of God's creation for all to enjoy. It is an incredible example of the natural settings in our Nation. Respect for geological ---- and formations.  The numbers of people who can witness the wonders! The Caverns are unbelievably big. Teaching people of all ages about natural, God-made wonders and how to protect and preserve them for ourselves and future generations. It is a treasure that we have looked forward to seeing for years. The caverns are spectacular and the bat fly-out incredible. One of a kind!  Incredible caverns and opportunity to witness the bats-a force of nature! I'm military and it was great to be able to use my National pass. Great place to visit with or without kids."
64,Hagerman Fossil Beds NM,HAFO,"Should be Nat'l Park destination. It shows the geology and age of land although I wish the aging process card statement of how long ago things formed wasn't stated in the millions.  The earth is not that old. Reminder/our history ----. The finding of fossils that can't be found in other parts of our country. Fossils and pre-historic animals in the U.S. Good opportunities to study varieties of categories like history, biology or geology. Preservation and education and research and discover. Education. A fossil ----. Understanding the ancient ecology of our nation. Unique view into prehistoric eras. Preservation of the past, learning opportunities, teaching opportunities. Very significant.  My kids (aged 10, 6, 4) really loved looking/learning about the fossils! Learning about the history of the area. It protects the scientific values of the fossils from the Pliocene epoch. In my opinion it was significant to make Hogrman a national park, because of the amount of fossils and animal species. Very important both for horse/fossil and minioka history. It is small but very interesting-Ranger-was great.  Very friendly. Seeing how the current environment and geology came to be and learning about the ancient ecosystem. In combination with mammoth site in Hot Springs, SD, it shows how species survived the ice age. Multi-paleontologist (interpretation cultural history-WWII; Oregon Trail (contact me if you wish to know more-Michael Anselme 208-590-5418). Preserving the past to protect the future. The historical relevance of the Minidoka/interment and making sure this part of history is NEVER repeated and the learning experience for kids with fossils. This are encapsulates paleontology, american history and ----. Awesome! Demonstrates the connection to the planet. Are planning a tour. Fun. Preservation of our shared natural history for future generations to explore. Teach us about the geology of the area, Flora and Fauna of the past.  Learn about our more recent history: or trail. Highly educational. It's amazing.  Great. Fantastic fossils. Learning about our past as a nation and geography. Fossil records of the land, unique to our Country. The value of Hagguinais fossil beds is the history of earth. Like all our national parks, it's a treasure we should be proud of. Preserving the history of our nation. It has very interesting prehistoric animal and geological significance. Preserving fossils deposited from Bonneville Lake when it flooded. Great place for preservation of artifacts of past history.  Great exhibit on internment camp. Remarkable. Fossil and history is fascinating.  Really great job explaining and showing us. Geological history. Geology and revolutionary biological displays. It would be nice if visitors can occasionally see the scientists at work. History of formation, Lake Bonneville flooding! Preserve the fossils and areas where they were found. Showing the range of fossils found in area. To keep us aware of all things that came before humans and civilizations. Hagerman house and Mammoth. History of WWII-tolerance.  Fossils-awesome!  Hands on for kids. Very significant-shows where we came from. Fossil beds. I learned a lot about the types of animals indigenous to the area, some of which were a total surprise!  i.e. camel. Preserving our geological and paleontological history. Historical background of the area.  Enjoyed learning about the history. Presenting histories of wildlife in this area. Preservation for our children, these beautiful places.  Thank you for what you do. The fossils are unique and need to be protected and allow people to see them. Understanding of climate changes, how that has effected evolution, etc. Natural history of the area, very interesting! Preservation of our history-and history of our planet. Minidoka=highest priority (along w/Tule Lake).  Hagerman=medium. Because of the fossils found, processed and displayed.  Excellent chance to educate the general public about past history/nature. History and preservation. National Heritage. Fossils of ancient animals. This is very interesting.  We compared it to the Fossil Beds in ----, ---- too.  Great exhibit here! Great Site but VERY disappointing that there was no Stamp (NPS Picture Stamp) for my NPS Passport. Your Guides and Instructors were excellent, very informative and helpful and very nice, J. Sears. It was the beginning of the country and how the west was explored and came to be. History of Japanese Americans treatment.  We need to remember!  Fascinating history of our animal past existence. Natural history. Please continue to preserve these resources for future generations. Protects and highlighting the prehistory flora and fauna of the area. Historical (Westward expansion).  Geological/paleoarchaelogical. For ---- we can learn all people are of value; there is no room for prejudice. The park honors the Japanese-Americans who were displaced in WWII AND displays the fossil evidence of the local area. Preservation of history is very important. History and science education.  Thank you!  Rangers at museum were very kind and helpful. Fossil record, our relationship as a spp. in time. Historically significant w/anthropological importance. Fossils are part of history. The Hagerman horse as a native species.  Wild Love Preserve: www.wildlovepreserve.org. Yes, great education. Due to the richness and quality of the fossils from a specific epoch not found anywhere else in the world. Fossils. Great. History through fossils-awesome. To preserve history. Your bookstore needs geology books about the geology of the Snake River region.  Surprised there is nothing. A scientific store house! Very appropriate to educate kids of past conditions and geology of our country. Please expand Hagerman and Minidoka to put facilities onsite.  A lot of info but its so spread out.  LOVED improvements at Minidoka. Learning about older geologic history. Historical perspective on ""modern"" fossils. Important!  We need to continue to preserve, learn our history, know our landscape-excellent staff who answered questions, accommodated us! To preserve the history of the early settlers and different prehistoric area. A unique opportunity to Idaho's history. Intro to the park grounds. Highlight the fossils discovered and connection to Oregon Trail. History of Hagermen.  History of Japanese encampments. Fossils of different animals. Japanese-Amer exhibit very well put together. Preservation of the Hagerman fossil bed and education. The different fossils are displayed and the Hagerman horse also. To educate about fossils and the ---- horse. Great fossils. Great! It has a important link to our significance in the ---- Epoch. To ensure we all learn and respect the need to learn the ---- and understand the significance of ----. Presenting two places with great historical, cultural and scientific value. The history and story of specifically the H. horse and the NA Camel connects us to the rest of the world ""we are all one"".  Lets understand this plan and move forward together. Well done on a small budget. Geologic history and fossil history. History, what was here in our nation years ago. Geological development. Yes. Fossil beds. Showing geologic significance of the area which looks relatively nondescript. History, nature. Huge fossil area full of history. Important palentogic site that shows us the history of how our area has changed and evolved through millenia. Teaching about the archeology of the nation and the plight of the Japanese in the camps during WWII> The Hagerman horse. We love our national parks and appreciate the history that is presented at every park as well as the activities.  The potential for this to grow is exciting. We love geology!!! Truly unique.  Very accessible for the general public. Unique geological reserve. My one hundredth park.  Cesar was very helpful. GREAT in many ways:  geology, natural sciences, human history, etc.. A major part of our history! Historical significance always of ---- days and history of injustices that we hopefully can learn from. Japanese internment history and wonderful paleontology significance. Preserving paleontological resources. From a geological standing is is incredible.  The significance of the horse and fossil remains. Preservation of fossils from Pliocene era, particularly mammals-Hagerman Horse, etc.. Fossils!  Minidoka had a nice walk and good signage.  Could have more quotes from internees. The great resource of fossils. It's the largest Pliocene grouping of fossils in the world. History of our country. It's great to be able to learn what was here in prehistoric times. To protect, display and educate about fossils in the area, and to continue the search for more. The historical fossil beds. The vast fossil record for the time period. Education. preservation. Very important for teaching about local fossils and fossils in general."
65,Chickamauga & Chattanooga NMP,CHCH,"Civil War. Awesome! Human sacrifice! Historical ---- the significance of the Civil War and the impact on the nation. From the ---- if ---- and informative. Thank you. To learn history of the Civil War. History of the Civil War. Very important to visit. As tourists we learned a lot about the Civil War History. Our heritage. Site of battle is well preserved as well as beautiful access to nature. A memorial to a ---- ----  ---- in our ----. A reminder of sacrifices made for our freedom. It was one of the largest Civil War battles and the last in the Western theater.  Needs to have all historical exhibits including Southern flags. Very important. CW History. Historic. Civil War strategic point. The view was awesome!  Well worth our time, and money.  Thank you. Civil War history.  Native American history. Civil War. History ---- ----. Civil War Battle. Reminder of the sacrifices made by Americans during the Civil War. Increase awareness ---- ---- of the war has changed ---- --- to keep American history alive. Our history, good or bad, is OUR history this Park is a treasure! History-Civil War. For future generations of historians. National Memorial to ----. Our history/culture of America. Its role in the Civil War. Keeping history alive for generations to come. We must remember the sacrifices of all involved, to save the Nation. A reminder of what our Country went through during the Civil War.  Hopefully, we will no ---- the past. It is a visible part of our history. The view and location. War purposes. Yes more so than I realized. Captures important history location. Military history of the region. Heritage and remembrance. Importance of Civil War history. Marked point in the history of the USA.  Military lessons learned; impressive training for soldiers. To preserve the rich history of the Civil War. Civil War-freedom. Essential for our history. Great for professional leadership development, utilize this battle scenario. Great park. The history. We should always be aware of the conflicts our nation has experienced and should never forget our nations fight for freedom. Commemorates pivotal civil war battles, post war reconciliation by ---- survivors of battle, both ----, ---- ---- in founding of first national military battle field/park. Heritage and how we became where/what we are today.  Events that actually happened and the grounds should be reserved. The history of the grounds. Established role of North and South in ---- of something greater than ---- ----. Recognition of one of the key battles of the Civil War. Very nice! A significant ---- of events in the Civil War.  A war where ---- slavery can not be ----. To honor the men/women who dies during the Civil War, an important time in our country's history. Civil War Battles. Historical area that shares how people react, sometimes without thinking green space in the middle of humanity. Critical battle fought here ---- important for everyone to experience piece of history and to appreciate the sacrifice made here. It commemorates a significant battle of the Civil War, and documents a time of our history when diplomacy utterly failed and the unbelievable happened. Major Civil War battle gateway to the south. Remind and inform how men died for their beliefs and the cost to keep the union. To preserve the history of our nation with accuracy. So impressive to read names of military men-some familiar and some relatives-also home states. To learn about the civil war battles, the soldiers and battle tactics and the after math of and consequences of war. Impact or Union ----, civil war. Remembrance, education. Civil war landmark. Valuable military history. Very good. Civil war. Commemoration of the Civil War history and a strategic battle. The struggles of personal freedoms. Teaching history, remembering those who made this field infamous, recreation. Heritage history building our nation. Lets our grand children learn about the Civil war. The history of the civil war and it's connection. History-Civil War. Teach people of the history of the area and our significant is the Civil War. Yes. Military and regional history (love civil war history!) A remembrance of a horrible time of our nation that pitted American's against each other to bring an end to slavery. America's beauty and historical sig. Educational. Historical, cultural. Immense ---- ---- ---- our history ---- ---- ----. To show and inform ---- ---- ---- battles. Remembering the Civil War. History-what happened here is always remembered and the beauty that surrounded it. One of the civil war era. The battle of Chickamauga was the ---- battle of the ---- of to this confederacy or the start of the ---- to the rear. Wonderful experiences. History, beauty. Very important civil war. The Battle Above the Clouds was fought on Lookout-a turning point battle in the Civil War.  Also, the sightseeing is phenomenal. In honor of fallen soldiers. History-never forget the past, even if you don't like it. Preserving history and making available to future generations. Tremendous. Civil War history. A reminder of the struggle to save the Union and the sacrifices that many had made. Pivotal battle resulting in the downfall of the South (ultimately). The horrors of war!  Brother against brother. For people to enjoy. To teach people the history of the Civil War and to remind us of the sacrifices made. It's important ---- the ---- ---- ----. Hallowed ground-second highest casualty count of Civil War battles. It represents the Civil War in a historical manner. Historical preservation. Preserving history, education of our citizens! For people to see what happened in this war. It's a living history of the Civil War. Show the sacrifice made by both sides. This is great.  Glad we came. Very good presentation. Reminder of our tremendous country's history.  Those who fought for our liberty. To preserve our history. No one wins from a war, especially a civil war. Civil War history, culture. To keep the remembrance of the Civil War. Very informative of history in the South, was fought for our freedom, what the land was previously used for. Historical."
66,Presidio of San Francisco,GOGAe,"I believe it is ---- for your family to lean about this history this place has to ---- like the ---- and people that were here before. Military history. Presidio has a lot of historic value to the nation and it's one of the few green spaces in the city. Represents the best of America, beautiful experience with volunteers (Zach/rock balancing) Dianne (Rockart). Beautiful, multi-use outdoor space. The Presidio is an example for an urban park that is vital to millions in the bay area and a huge number of tourist visitors. This is a land mark for San Francisco area. Military base of SF. Gateway to the West.  Military here protecting entrance into Bay area. Great place to have good time with my family as bicycling and picnic. Fort Point, and the Presidio were used/built during WWII and you can learn about it here. Historical.  I was married here in 1972.  My reception was at the Officer's Club.  It's wonderful that it has been made public. History-my father sailed from this site to fight in WWII.  He was moved when they sailed under bridge after the war. I am a bike tour guide-we kind of destroy the grass every Summer...how can we solve that problem. Early air traffic and defense.  Views of S.F. and Golden Gate. Outstanding natural ---- with rich human history. 1. Historical importance.  2. Sharing nature resources.  3. Education and my fav. is showing plants and geography of pre people site. Beautiful landmark in 19th and 20th Century history. Give the US military was previously stationed here, it does an amazing job of providing history and current uses for local and tourists. San Francisco is a busy dense city.  Chrissy Fields is a gorgeous multi use place of peace and awe. Historic site, outdoor recreation, undeveloped/preserved land and protected environment. View of GG, space for public recreation. Beautiful trails. People coming together to make a better place. Preserve its history for everyone to enjoy. History. Bridge view and Fort Point. Unique. History of bridge. The fact that it was once an army base and a big part of our U.S. national defense and history-now utilized in a great way for the general public. Appreciation of the bridge. The protection of our country. It's pretty. Why do you need a permit for amphitheater?  Is it the number of people? Beautiful view. The history behind it and Fort Mason. Preserving beautiful and scenic natural spot that can be used by everyone regardless of who they are.  Also, Presidio, the Fort and Alcatraz are national historic treasures that should be preserved and maintained. Proximity to Golden Gate and Alcatraz. Social gatherings, relaxation. I came for bridge view. Historical, Golden Gate Bridge. More roads. This park's history, natural restoration and patrons' participation creates much valued example. More compost. History, natural beauty. Historical. The area around the Golden Gate Bridge is very nice, the Korean War Memorial is pretty cool too. So people could enjoy an urban national park. This park is used to be base for soldiers.  It's historical park which is valuable. Military significance. It has a rich history of military. It represents a pivotal point in US Western politic. Marvel of American engineering. To maintain the beauty of national park. Being near the Golden Gate bridge ----. It is quite important. This park was to help protect the shores from being attacked from the sea. Pride and preservation of heritage. Everything. Beautiful protected shared place. It is a fine example of public space for all ages, good that dogs on leash are allowed. It's a great representation of history of America and shows off some of America's great land and rivers. The presidio. Learning about all different layers of history. Great public outdoor use with a fabulous view of the GG bridge, like that dogs are allowed, love the warming hut and the beach and picnic area. All can use this to be healthy and happy. The bridge is a scientific marvel.  And the area around it (Presidio) only amplifies it's beauty. Views. 0 Best use of the space.  I thank God it's not a commercial building. Nature areas. A green space in the urban area.  To keep alive the history of the Presidio. Longest bridge, oldest army base, most beautiful. The beautiful. I love the off leash parts. The views. Only San Francisco. The natural wildlife and plants as well as the beautiful Golden Gate bridge.  I'm not into the Presidio buildings and military history. I enjoy the history and natural environment.  I love the trails, the bay front, the views of the bridge and the city. Icon of SF.  Great for urban recreation. Beauty. Part of S.F., California, and USA history. West coast line, Ft. Point historically important. Key link between SF and the Golden Gate Bridge.  Fabulous exercise spot. It helps ensure that all people and animals can share the outdoors. Enormous-big part of Cal and national history-wonderful to preserve AS is.  Please don't commercialize!!! Local not national. Million dollar views, green areas. The significance  is the bridge and the view is spectacular, of ---- island and ----. It symbolizes the gateway to freedom. The bay, the ----, the coast, all of it.  I love this city! Beautiful, nature bay as with as native and army significance. Freedom and liberty! Wonderful. For the enjoyment of all.  They are too busy speeding along.  Also I was hit by a bike from the back-he wasn't watching. A space to enjoy nature in our busy city. It's the gateway to California.  It's a beautiful area and a nice get away from the busy city. San Francisco/California early history and water.  The ocean, the bay and our impact on our environment.  Love the combo so accessible. Biggest bridge of the world. To be near with nature, faun and flour. Airfield. Priceless record of flora and fauna, fabulous opportunity for safe family cycling. To get all the opp. to see and learn about US history and recreation. History and beauty. Great views of Golden Gate Bridge. Bridge where is it? The park itself was very fun and peaceful. History of SF. To remember the American's origin and to ---- show the improve of your country. I came to see Golden Bridge. To keep the nature of the park and land alive for the youth. The significance is that it's very nice. A park in a rich urban center with views, history and world class ----. Golden Gate. Heritage being proud. To show us more about nature. The Golden Gate bridge. To see the Golden Gate. I enjoy views. A great welcoming to the Western US. To know history behind the Golden Gate. Fort ----. Learning more about it's history and learning more of it's history pre Spanish habitats and the history of the Ohlore ---- of Bay ----. I came to see the Golden Gate bridge. Because it is beautiful. Fort Point. National patrimony. I came to see the bridge. It is a site of constant cultural exchange. History and ---- to Golden Gate bridge. Because it's beautiful and has coyote's. Is an iconic point, a must to any tourist or inhabitant.  It is the brand of the city. Proximity to the Golden Gate bridge. Military."
67,Thomas Edison NHP,EDIS,"Yes!  All lab buildings were not open during our visit.  Disappointing. Source of some of the most important inventions. The greatest inventory who ever lived.  Our Country gave him the opportunity. Edison's history and his contribution to the world. Value of Innovation and Invention reflects value of new technology. To provide example of innovation and entrepreneurship. Education, great Rangers. Birth place of significant inventions/creativity. The history and inventions. Birth place of invention. The history of invention. Edison is the ---- figure who contributed tremendously to progress of human kind. Historic.  Inventions. History. History, information. Highlights the inventive genius of Thomas Edison. Invention, ingenuity, self-sufficiency. Understanding the impact of Edison on inventing, R and D, and manufacturing in the U.S.. Massive collection of historical artifacts.  Preservation of history. The park does an excellent job with continuing the legacy of Edison's impact on all aspects of America. Very high from a ---- and scientific point of view. American innovation. Inventions. Extremely important to the history of the nation. Great history of inventions. Incredible inventions. Historic park explaining Edison's inventiveness.  Loved the house and library. History, inspiration. All the things that took place here helped shape the world we live in today. Capturing the story of a pioneering American Scientist. Enormous-it inspires future generations and American innovation. History of the most important inventor of the 20th century.  Especially important as a New Jerseyan. Homage to one of our greatest citizens. Celebrating and remembering Edison and his contributions. It stands as a testament to the work, life and ideals of one of history's most influential people. Historic. High. Shows the ""home side"" of a world changing ----. Inventor of modern America lived here. Edison was a one of a kind icon; he practically invented industry. History of so many things invented. The importance of industrial development to our country. Tradition of ---- industry. Edison was a very important person in American history, many accomplishments. Shows the need for continued thinking and invention plus the importance of Edison's inventions today. Thomas Edison and his remarkable importance to the American nation. Very significant. Rise of US industrial leadership. Great to learn about history. This park preserves the laboratory and home of Thomas Edison, a genius inventor, experimenter and scientist who developed inventions we still use today. Excellent. It's an inspiration. Lasting memorial to American innovation and commence. American history and industry. Good well preserved. Many of his inventions changed the way we live today. To commemorate the great Thomas A. Edison. Scientific history. Educates the public on the life achievements of a fixture in America history. 0 The history, the amazing path to things we take for granted today. The ushering in of a new era of history, electric light and phonographic sound and photography.  Nothing rivals it's importance! Edison's impact on our world is fantastic. Thomas Edison was an innovator and an important symbol in the growth of our nation.  It is a part of our pride and identity. Historical detail and perspective about Edison and the industrial age. Very important to see the work of Edison and his contributions to society. To inform and educate about Thomas Edison and his contributions. Very. Understanding invention, creativity, entrepreneurial work. Scientific and cultural ----. The contributions made by Thomas Edison to human kind. Historical significance. Being national provides protection and assures this site for future generations. Important example of USA technological preeminence in the world. Marking Edison's significant contributions to the transformation from rural to industrial and the required infrastructure. The progress of America. To teach all generations about American inventive history. A very solid reminder of where we came from and hopefully where we are going. All the artifacts. Employee were great. Major part of our local history. This park shows Thomas Edison's invaluable contributions to our society. To make people aware of all the great inventions from Thomas Edison. Viewing the amazing ideas and craftsmanship of T. Edison and his Company. For people to learn about Edison and his contribution. Thomas Edison was a great inventor in the USA. History of sounds and photo and movies inventors and American ingenious. Technology! Edison's genius and inventions. National treasure. Edison changed the world. To teach about Mr. Edison and history of technology. The inventions of life of Edison is the history of America. We'd be in the dark ages without it. To credit Mr. Edison for all his hard and tireless work that benefits us today. It is a beautifully preserved time capsule of a period of American history with huge impact on how we live today. Properly celebrate a true American genius. Very important as Thomas Edison was such a contribution to the early ---- of the US. Phonograph. Shows early research facilities and what was dreamed up and developed. The artifacts. Thomas Edison. The history of Thomas Edison. Demonstration of 19th/20th century .  American innovation. Historical significance. Major park among the most important. Historical perspective on inventions contributor to life as we know it today and things we might otherwise take for granted without knowing the effort behind them. Inventions that changed history.  Saving his documents for further research. Brilliant innovation and entrepreneur. Important for history. Inspiration to youngsters. Contribution to science and technology. Education about T. Edison industry and scientific value. The methods/history of Edison. History of technology and many other inventions. ---- of historical importance.  Go Edison! To do so; to history. It was very important to our society and how we create things in 2016. Creative, innovative, ---- process model for amazing life changing products. Preserve history, learn about Edison. A key piece of our history. An invaluable piece of important American history. I'm not sure, but to recognize famous American inventor.  Mr. Thomas Edison. Important to remember Edison and his history. Inspired the American Dream!  If you can dream it you can build it!! It explains Edison's genius and impact on the world excellently!  Great presenters! It is very interesting and provides a look into Edison's life and how much he did and what he did still impacts our lives today. The history of innovation in U.S. To educate and have on the ---- about life in the past. Part of what we are today. Thomas Edison's contribution to the modern world. This was great and fun. For people to learn history and enjoy all the beauty of our country. History and items in the pond. To step back in time and see how things were at Edison's time, and to appreciate what we have today because of him. Great historical value. Most definitely. High! Very important. Not enough Rangers showing things on various floors of main factory-in fact none.  None to ask. Wonderful for showing how things were done in the past. The history of the inventions and explanations of machinery. To glorify personal and National achievements. It's significance to the Nation because this is where it all began with Edison. Excellent from point of view of history and human's achievements. Thomas Edison ----. Beautiful historic sight.  Glad we came. The historical ingenuity of the American dream. Very important for kids. Contribution from Edison to World's inventions. Edison is significant and should stay a National significance. Thomas Edison's Lab. An inventor whose contributions changed our Country for the better. America is a land of opportunity and invention.  Edison was the embodiment of that. Community pride, world contribution. History of Great Inventor/Scientist. Inventiveness of Americans-past to present. The importance of Edison to the nation's industrial history. Great to know about Edison inventions. Multiple inventions of Edison and his impact on the modern world. Most valuable. Learning about a notable American and science innovation. Very significant! It's Edison.  More ---- please. Edison's laboratory is signicant to our Nation's history almost as much as Congress. Inspirational for inventors. Preservation of historical significance. Good job for teaching history, culture. Very significant to our history. Great. W. Orange, NJ and American history.  Science. To learn about the contributions Edison made to mankind. Remind public of history of American ----. It tells a lot about the kind of people associated with experience of its times. History. It's excellent. Great. Invention and progress and hard work. Very significant I learned so much lots of awesome things to see. Apparently Edison invented some stuff? Great learning experience. To educate the public of the works of Edison. In keeping the significant contributions to science and industry. Important to log activities of the Thief of Menlo Park!  Tesla Rules! The contribution of Mr. Edison. Thomas Edison and his numerous inventions are an important part of our past, present, and future. Industrialization history. It is history. Learning about Edison.  NJ National Landmark. The incredible contribution of TE. To learn about Thomas Edison creations. Great education site and opportunities for children. Excellent thank you so much. Tesla! Edison was a genius far ahead of his time and so much of what we have and use today have it's beginnings with him. The true story of Thomas Edison great for class visits. Learn history. Awareness about the inventions of Edison.  Amount of effort which was put to create things is truly incredible. History of Thomas Edison. History of inventor and the men and women behind them. Exhibiting the value of creativity invested in his creativity. Music industry, origins of film, and the idea of continuing the service for better things.  And obviously the origins of the light bulb. The great contributions Edison made to American/World society. Fundamental scientific invention which led our life with comfort and ease. Learning about Edison and his inventions. History. Continuing to provide history to our young people. Teaches kids what helped make American great. Americans restless for progress, invention capitalism. To learn about history. For all the contributions ____ made for the state. Preserving history and natural spaces for generations to come. Greatest ---- in the world-how he originated many industries. Industrial revolution took place in America. History. Edison is an important American figure. Heritage of free thinking, invention.  It shows that America is the land of opportunities. It is part of our history. Lots of info on Edison history. Edison's work, both original and derived, changed our way of life.  Having a glimpse into the spaces where ideas manifested into reality is inspiring. Good. It present a background and history of an American original and our greatest inventor Thomas ---- Edison. History. Thomas Edison was the greatest American inventor! This documented the amazing life and contributions of Edison. The significance of the park is to educate about Edison and his inventions and show how industrial experimentation worked in the late 1800's and early 1900's."
68,Lewis and Clark NHP,LECL,"Tribute to L and C. Integral to U.S. history.  As a teach of such I wish I could bring my class to visit-long way from Utah. To learn more about the Lewis and Clark journey. Great for education and historical perspective of positive shaping of America. Lewis and Clark spent the winter of 1805-06 here. That the perseverance of people before us helped shape our future. History. The climax to crossing 2/3 of country. Learn about the historical significance of Lewis and Clark tour. Wonderful experience.  Thank you. History on Lewis and Clark-very good! Exploration of the nation and its people. Demonstrate perseverance of the corps in attaining their goal. It helps everyone to remember the importance of this exploratory expedition. Rich historical value dating back to the corps of discovery as well as the information on the native culture and nature. The preservation of the Westward expansion of the USA. Good lesson on history. Loved it. Very important! Educate people. History of Lewis and Clark expedition and findings. Initial mapping of area! Has significant history. Historical. Proud history. Very important:  Not only were Lewis and Clarke important ---- the Jefferson vision of America's future, but also they are the first serious encounter of European civilization with the U.S. West. U.S. History. Great facilities. Without Lewis and Clark there would be no Manifest Destiny. Historical. Excellent. 0 Historical and beauty of park. It made US history. Lewis and Clark essential piece of history for US and esp PNW. The corp of discovery. Learn about our history. We love this park. Of great significance. To educate people about Lewis and Clark. Our history is very important.  Lewis and Clark played a major role in forming our nation, mapping the area and identifying plants and animals. Exploration of the West-opening for the future. It preserves the history for our country. Exploration of route West. Significant events of Lewis and Clark Expedition happened here.  It remains a national story, important to everyone's education into citizenship. I think this park is extremely important in interpreting an important part of our nation's history and L & C interaction with native culture. Recognition of the surveying of the USA. Historical significance. Very informative. A wonderful opportunity to learn history using all the senses which is the correct way to teach and learn.  I wish all park facilities were as multi-learning. It matters how every Nation begins.  This was a good beginning. Appreciate the debt owed to the indigenous people in the establishment of this nation. To preserve for others to see. To educate folks about the character, courage, intelligence and discipline of our Countries pioneers.  Awesome! Show the achievements of Lewis and Clark; historical significance. I liked the way Ranger Tom tied his presentation into America's birthday.  A very educational and enjoyable experience. ---- Terminus of first great scientific expedition in U.S.. ---- story is super! Cultural, environmental and historical importance.  If any of this is lost, it would be a disaster! It shows how the land was discovered by pioneers but does a good job showing the Native history. U.S. history of the western settlers. Valuable info of our history. History, pride, and sacrifice of those who made life better for us. Great explanation/interpretation of the discovery of America. Very great! Important American history.  Lewis and Clark. Very important-historical significance. Very high. Very important part of our U.S. heritage! Tells the story of Lewis and Clark and the discovery of this country. Please keep it here always not all my grandkids are old enough. Value of Lewis and Clark. Reason why US has 2 seas. A crucial time and experience in the L and C expedition. How the West was explored, their ----. Our history of exploration and relations with Native tribes. Great!  So important to have this historical site! Historical. Excellent! Lewis and Clark winter camp with Corp. of Discovery. Survival of Lewis and Clark to provide the nation with news. Exploration of the West, new frontiers. Exploration to the West part of the nation. Historical value very special. Lewis and Clark reached the Pacific here highly significant! The expansion of the US.  History of knowing about how Lewis and Clark traveled on the river. To learn about Lewis and Clark. Westward expansion. Lewis and Clark's camp for the winter.  Saved their lives. Of great significance. Very important place NW. America history. Westward expansion and discovery of Pacific NW and mouth of Columbia. Commemorates the Government sponsored exploration of new lands opening up westward expansion. Westward expansion and exploration of the USA. The remembrance of Lewis and Clark once reaching ocean. History, culture, nature. Moment of America.  Opening up the West. Recognizing the importance of the Lewis and Clark expedition-westward expansion. It helps define the beginning stages of our nation before its ----. History. Invaluable, wonderful. History of Westward expansion. L & C expedition is one of the greatest feats in our national history. Area where Lewis and Clark finished their expedition. Imperative that our Nation understands how L And C opened the West to settlement, trade, and discovery. Lewis and Clark history. Very important history. A terrific method for giving people a perspective on the endurance and success of Lewis and Clark. Opening of the west, manifest destiny and connection to Thomas Jefferson. Great location!  We love OUR PARK! Great significance and only 211 years ago! It's a living history of U.S. of America's purchase and expansion of Louisiana Territory. This is the foundation of the expansion of our country. Historical information, natural beauty. Key to westward expansion. Westward location of L and C trek. Learning about the history of L and C. Westward exploration and history of native peoples-education and recreation combined! Very. Essential!  Very important for younger generations. Historical and natural wonder. Or expedition L and C. The role is Lewis and Clark history. Enjoyed the display. Historically significant Lewis and Clark exploration is very important to the Westward expansion of US. This is the winter camp of the Lewis and Clark expedition, one of the defining ventures of the nation! Great day. History. Learning about early American life. Awesome.  Thank you. Very good Info. The essence of discovery to the West for America. End of Lewis and Clark Discovery Trip. Learning our history. Our heritage and how we got here.  I live in the area and love it. The Park represents the expansion of our Country to the West.  It's a wonderful Park. This is a part of our history! Magnificent great historical value. The history, the trails, the courtesy of the rangers. Very good. The impact of the expedition on expansion of U.S. Lewis and Clark. Honor Lewis and Clark. The Lewis and Clark expedition. Education and recreation. To learn about Lewis and Clark's exploration West of the Mississippi. Education, enjoyment. To learn about Lewis and Clark in Oregon. Preservation of history and education. Seem work of different people with different background and nationalities role model for US. Historical value to society. To chronolize a landmark of the L&P exhibition. Beginnings of expansion. Starting of the new world! Excellent for the children. Lewis and Clark exped. to the coast. It helps us understand how the nation grew and learn about the geographic regions there. Lewis and Clark exploration history. Cultural education. Preserve the history of the expedition. The Lewis and Clark expedition is inspiring and America at its best. Excellent learning facility. Lewis and Clark opened this territory. Westward expansion of a new nation. Exceptional, essential in educating all people of all ages. How our country was discovered, explored, preserved is every citizens right to know, learn. To show the outcome of Lewis and Clark's trek across the LA purchase. Biggest is for the children of the future! Our country didn't come to be without a lot of brave and determined explorers.  Our history is inspiring! National expansion to the Pacific Coast.  Spirit of exploration. Value of the efforts of the corps of discovery. Awesome, educational, history wish you would ""fix"" the beach scene box with whale. Historical purposes-fun to teach/show my kids. Historical.  It is important for everyone to know who they are and from where they came. The discovery of the route across the nation. To inform all those visiting the park the sacrifices of the expedition scouting and documenting the Northwest. Expansion of the USA. Our heritage-respect it! Excellent information-great trails! Lewis and Clark discovered the west. Great men demonstrated best of human nature. Good model for today's world. History. Preserving the history between Americans and Native Americans. Central to ---- West. Great history. History L and C expedition. Lewis and Clark making it this far west and the abundance of resources they were able to record, and the hardships they endured. Showing hardship expedition endured to ---- our nation. Informing us on the history of this area and expedition. Key to the discovery of the West. This park is about the beginning of the modern history of the west. End of L and C Trail. One park every citizen should experience. Wonderful opportunity to see end of Corps of Discovery journey! Important story of American history. Corps discovery and opening of the west. End point or westward exploration. Equivalent of landing on the moon (for westward expansion). History and how we became a nation is the ---- the park illustrates. A large part of history in our country.  Discovering this beautiful part of the US. Expansionism. Westward expansion. The fort and the ranger program. Learn about Lewis and Clark expedition. Lewis and Clark expedition opened west. The discovery of the ---- lands of the US. It shows how the west was explored. Discovery of the west. Very nice. History, culture. History!!  We all need to know this. Like winter quarters. Very important history. Lewis and Clark were instrumental in the development of the West. Westward exploration and the impact leading to demise of the Native American, almost. Had no clue it existed. Claiming the land for U.S.. Much! Historical significance-we can't lose that! Our important history is taught in a fun and informative way. Touching our history-wonderful rangers! It is an important historical site and must be preserved for future generations. Learning about those that blazed the trail to the West is invaluable. Preserving our history for future generations. I think we try to justify what we did to the natives in many ways.  Teaching about the ---- is just one, less glorification to ---- Historical and informative.  Important to learning about discovery of the Pacific NW. It reflects the can-do spirit of the American Expansion. Corps of Discovery quite a lot of significance to population movement. To preserve a story in history (and inform about people and things from the past). History. The expansion of America/L and C story.  Living in NW environment/biome.  Experience new cultures and land than the East. Reminds us of where we come from. Very significant. Lewis and Clark made settlement in the Northwest possible. It is a record of the flora, fauna and routes from east to west-unparalleled in our history. Pretty significant! The history and beginning of the opening of the west. It's a huge part of the history of our country.  Educational. Huge value in preservation of historic area that shaped history of our nation. The journey of Lewis and Clark marked the westward movement and settlement of the West.  We have visited both the eastern and Western ends of this path."
69,Gateway NRA-Jamaica Bay,GATEa,"Preservation, experience/appreciation of wildlife (city dwellers are out of touch) ---- mostly history of area of Jamaica Bay ---- for care. Aviation. An area where birds can be themselves in the middle of NYC-INCREDIBLE! Beautiful beach access for all NYC citizens. Rare place to see the nature that people don't think exists in NYC.  I've learned so much about my own state coming here. Excellent study of resident and migratory birds, urban wetlands and coastal habitats. Not sure. ---- Honoring Jacob Reis. Historic military preservation. It is good for wildlife especially bird watching. Important historical site. To inform people and provide information to the importance of our eco system. Preserves nature, and provides a place for people to enjoy and interact with it. Major birding stop over.  Important ecological zone. Bird habitat. It is important to have a sanctuary in NYC. Aviation history in America. Preservation of habitat for wildlife in particular birds. The preservation of an area outside the city reminiscent of what NYC is like without development. To preserve nature and the beautiful beaches. Many follow to USH through New York and loved the beach. I don't know about the significance but it's very friendly. So important to have this outdoor/beach space and access for NYC residents with emphasis on recreation. Excellent value because it is spacious and anyone can come for free! Area of natural beauty, arts and cultural hub, military ----. I often visit ---- Bay wildlife refuge and sometimes Fort Tilden for birding and other natural history.  The refuge is an extremely important habitat for hundreds of species. For the people to enjoy and this park most of the buildings have been closed for too many years. I'm not sure. It's an amazing resource right here in NYC! This is an important habitat close to human development. Provides a great location to see birds. Excellent wildlife viewing and natural habitat within the NYC region. To preserve wildlife and for teaching. Natural habitat in an urban environment. There is a rich history here that dates back to my grand parents.  It's fun to be part of something they remember. Why is path gravel, too much noise when walking. Education, recreation. This national park is home to a lot of different wild life and is important for their survival. Expose people in an urban environment to nature. Preservation of wide range of aquatic/marine environment and most important their wildlife inhabitants esp. birds! Priceless jewel for New Yorkers to connect with nature and to get an inkling of how the site looked before Verazzano's ----. Thanks for preserving this. The general wet land marsh area, esp. the osprey nest viewing to chicks! Accessible nature to all, thank you for making it fun for all ages. Most best inner city national park and ocean, duh. Bird sanctuary for displaced species, especially the ----. Overall excellent. The welcomeness of uniting communities. The significance of this park is that if fulfills diverse, interdisciplinary interests and inspirations, it is a foundation to the sciences, literacy, ethics, mindfulness to name a few. It's an oasis away from the hectic city.  Take care of it, value it! Gives urban dwellers opportunities to partake in nature and view birds and animals. The gay beach here is the most beautiful, precious, inspiring people's beach in the nation. I'm not sure but happy to come here for outdoor peace and quiet. Great history of NYC, aviation. Unsure. The buildings are ---- of an earlier time, to see them restored along with the name (Riis) is an important thing. Aircraft restoration education and exhibits. Recreation and enjoyment after a hard days work. Well known nationally as a destination for migrating shore birds. NY's first airport. The sand is very dirty, lots of glass/garbage. I can't address it's national significance, but it's importance as an outdoor natural area for learning and recreation is ----. Good for protection of wildlife. This is my first visit, not sure. To preserve the natural environment, bird and wildlife in NYC. Awesome! Should be more bigger, great escape. Preservation. The wonderful wildlife. The historical importance of the park is interesting.  It is the national park closest to the metro area. Conservation. Preserving ecology and natural wild life. Important that parks are kept well. Great conservation resource/easily accessible educational opportunities. Wildlife preservation. Bird life. It signify's the beauty of nature and why it needs to be protected. It serves as a refuge for many different species of animals that can't live anywhere else. It is a wild life refuge in the city, we need more of these. Aviation history. History of aviation important for inspiring future engineers. Atlantic ---- . First municipal airport in NYC. It is an important historical and ecological area not found elsewhere in Brooklyn. To preserve the environment for the animals. Provides critical habitat for bird species and eco system services. We had a blend group of bikers, rangers were great in helping make the day memorable for everyone. A rare spot for wildlife within the limits of NYC. Nature was here before etc before us and will be after us let's keep it happy and healthy we all will benefit. Floyd Bennett field is most known for it's great role in our nations aviation history, first ----. It promotes the study of history. Conservation. It's the best beach in the entire NYC area for me.  Been coming here for 15 years and love how it's evolving. Important migration area for birds. History. Remembering that nature is important.  And how much beauty can exist in a small place when left on its own. To protect the coast. Public access to Atlantic. Protection of nature in one of the world's biggest urban centers. This park is a part of gay history.  We've been coming here since the 60's and its such a beautiful healing space.  I love ---- Park. Preserving nature in New York, providing community with a place to relax and explore. For outdoor experiences near the city. Preserve the natural beauty Jamaica bay and it's ----. Birding ----, ---- ---- ---- ----. It is part of New York City! Open natural space in NYC. The trail. Very high. First planes flew here. Unknown. It is a gift to the poor who struggle every day in this city. Last remaining tidal ---- in NYC. Urban parks are significant to represent the diversity and places that should be practiced. Getting the heck out of the city. History meets beauty. To make available a great resource and knowledgeable opportunity for the public. A way for the urban community to connect with nature. Important! Preserve nature and bring people to connect with nature. Very nice that a park exists near the city. Stop over habitat for migrating waterfowl and habitat for wintering waterfowl.  ---- ----. Having a wildlife refuge in NYC is excellent for get-away.  Lots of bird watchers were using the park. It is a significant area for recreation, or ---- and learning about our cities important history and natural habitat. Trail walking and birding activities. Getting back to nature.  A park inside the city.  Need to bring back the salt-free lake. I was excited both for the historic fort services and the natural ---- in such proximity to NYC. Fort Tilden has a military history that could be better developed as attractions at the site; there's also endangered species there that are protected; natural beauty at beach. Rockaway Beach suffered tremendously from Hurricane Sandy but it's on the way back!  Congratulations! Great beach. Natural reserve, open space, have the opportunity of watch different birds and to explore. P.S. The roads in and around fort tilden have so many holes. I live here 17 years and they were never fixed yet. Jamaica bay wildlife refuge. Bird sanctuary swimming, horse back riding, boating trails. Protecting beach wildlife!  Involvement and bringing together of diverse NYC communities. Gave everyone access to the beach from NYC and continues to be the people's beach. Excellent. The fort ---- and vegetation. part of the aeronautical heritage that shows how we have expanded as a nation. Sanctuary within metro area for wildlife and a way to regenerate the Jamaica Bay."
70,Richmond NBP,RICH,"Historical preservation. Civil War history. That American's should never kill one another ever again-let us have peace. Contribution to the end of the Civil War. To remember the sacrifice of these men and all they did. Civil War. Historical ---- into the further understanding of the Civil War, and what role the region played in the shattering preservation of the Confederacy. This park helps us to remember where we came from in order to be today. Civil War-our heritage. History of our nation. It is a wealth of information concerning the civil war. Richmond's role in the civil war. Very high historical significance. Very important history. To help us understand the civil war. The best way to understand what makes a land in to look at it's history and it's people.  This what the park let's you do. Remembering our history. Key battle Civil War. The significance is what this site tells us about our history as a nation and how it needs preserved!! History knowledge. History. Ranger Mark Wilcox gave us great help in finding a site of interest we would have missed.  THANKS. We need to have these parks to remind us of the terrible loss of American's against Americans.  We can not let this happen again. Shows the repulsion of Northern invasion and two years later the ---- impact of East Northern aggression resources.  The character and resolve of Robert E. Lee are without equal! Making sure we can preserve our history during the Civil War. Medical history. It had a large ---- in a war that ---- shaped our Country's modern history and culture. To teach history using primary source locations and hands-on displays. It shows pretty clearly where the North and South came face-to-face, and gives a good visual of their method of fighting. It shows the importance of hospitals and it explains and shows the horrors of warfare. Civil War Medicine-we were very impressed by movie and model. Preserving History of the American Civil War. To teach, educate and preserve hallowed grounds that defined our country as a nation. The beginning of the end of slavery. Pass on our history to future generations. Historical relevance to Richmond's role in Civil War. It is a important site in the history of the Civil War and development of Medical Care. Learning and history. History. Key Civil War Battle. Learn about Civil War and Richmond. Historical Point. The South was given important supplies from this location. Richmond as the Capital of the Confederacy and the impact of the Civil War on America. Huge. Very significant. Important Civil War site. Reminds us of the importance of preservation of our Country and the preservation of our history. Preservation of National and Regional history. Hugely important especially for our young people to appreciate the sacrifice of our forefathers. As perhaps ---- most important Civil War industrial site, this is integral to understand our Nation's most trying time. 0 A GREAT opportunity to learn about ----. Great significance due to its being the Capitol of the Confederacy and number of important sites. Sharing history and details for Civil War help me and my students. Yes, this is significant to the Nation because it represents a difficult time and the sacrifices of others. Demonstrates how the Confederacy and Medical Science coped with the horrors of War. To show Richmond Battlefields and their affect on the Civil War. Historical. The Park needs to exist so that every one is allowed to see the role of the South during the War. Preservation of history is  necessary for the youth to see the prices paid and way of life. Very important. Early and most important history of Nation beginnings. Preservation of Civil War Battlefields. Place where the weapons ---- Confederacy were primarily produced. Very informative, brings life to what men over come. It educates people on an over looked facet of Military History:  Battlefield Medicine and hospitals. This is a perfect example of the core values of America. To see what happens when we don't come together. Very significant to preserve our Nation's History. Yes, to the best our knowledge. Cold Harbor is the forgotten Battle.  It is important because it stopped Grant's Advance on Richmond. Excellent reminder of our Nations's history. Marked an important time in our history, particularly Civil War. National pride. To remind people of the Civil War's legacy more than 150 yrs. later. Tredegar was the site where this Confederate Army had their cannons made; first cannon used in Civil War was made here. The site providing an important record of events ---- be the development of the nation. Very significant to the history of our nation.  Thank you! Important. Show cases important battles fought through out the entire civil war. Civil war medical history. Continued remembrance of the sacrifice made for our country. It-as all of the Civil War parks-serves to remind us of the sacrifices men and women made to forge a new nation. Learning about the battle in Richmond and significance of ---- iron works. Very significant.  This history and the story of Richmond in the Civil War must be kept alive. To educate people about Civil War era medicine. Appreciate the multiple perspectives offered. Discovering what the confederate soldiers and the Richmond public endured. Gives more understanding of this terrible time in our country (civil war) we can survive ----! Commemorating the civil war and the men that died in it. History, education. Art Wingo was an invaluable asset to our Richmond trip.  His Civil war knowledge extended to all Richmond site but also about sites outside the Richmond area.  However-fix the AC! History for our kids to learn. Teaches, in detail, the reason of the Civil War and all that was a stake for both sides. The civil war. Very interesting. ---- Understanding the efforts and resources used toward war effort. Civil War hospital info and medical knowledge. Civil War battlefield. It shows Grants 1864 campaign to Richmond and McClellen descat 10 miles from Richmond in 1862. Commemorating the Civil War and specifically significance of Cold harbor and surrounding areas. Great facility as a vet I appreciate all history. History buff. Extremely important.  Suggest adding ---- story of Chimborazo/use as free man's camp. Part of the history of the Confederacy and Civil War. To remember what happened to our country 150 years ago. Historical value and education. Robert E. Lee's first ----. Very significant in shaping our Nation during the Civil War. Appreciation of Civil War history. A national treasure. Southern industrial capacity-particularly during Civil War. It's an important place where our fellow citizens were cared for during the Civil War and is important to the history of medicine and nursing. Civil War cemetery.  Battle nearby. To show the sacrifice Americans will make to defend their beliefs. Offers insight to Civil War Battleground conditions. Confederate ingenuity. It explains the Civil War. Like piece of American History. Very significant historical site. History of Civil War and important part Richmond played. History of Southern industry. It preserves and provides information about one of the most significant periods of time for our country-a time when the U.S. could have been torn apart. Explaining and showing areas where a ---- Civil War battle took place over a 3 ---- mile area. Richmond's history is very significant to the growth of our nation in the 1800s and the Iron Works supported the South during the Civil War. The significance of the park is to show and tell young American children about the nation's history and battles that made us the nation we are today, whether good or bad. Our common history. Civil war battlefield history. To learn about the history of Tridegal Iron work.  I really enjoyed my visit! Important to the unions advance to Richmond! Great piece of US history, capitol of the confederacy. Civil war most important even in our history. Historic. Interpreting Richmond battle sites from Civil War. It preserved a major portion of the industrial center of the South. It was the capital at the Confederate and of prime importance for the union to take. Learning/understanding the significance of the Civil War from both the Northern and Southern perspective. 0 Preserving history. To bring everyone into the awareness of the history and the part that VA played in this nation. We should never forget our history and absorb the tragedy of war and hopefully learn the ultimate lessons. The battlefields of Richmond present an opportunity to see how war interacted with the home front and how war itself changed over time; help ---- the picture of ----. History! Historical re: civil war and to include my great grand dad who was wonderful there. Civil war battle, history of Richmond. Civil War. Inform and preserve this legacy of our Civil War for generations to come. History. History of confederacy. First hand look at a major location of the civil war. Historical significance. Once Richmond was taken by the Union the end to the civil war quickly followed. Allows us to remember and understand the civil war. To learn about the past. As our country gets older, it becomes more imperative to have historical sites like this.  The old saying those who don't know history are doomed to repeat it applies. To preserve Richmond battles. As a people, we need to understand our history in order to work together productively to create a future that is equitable and unites us all. Historical. The iron works is both a critical part of the history of the Civil War (and later war) and of our developing industry and manufacturing technology. Munitions and good manufacturing for the Confederacy, main or larger manufacturer in region. Civil War history. Interesting and important Civil War history. Put Richmond's role in perspective.  Also enjoyed visiting Iron Works. Documentation of our nation's civil war. Very high. A very important part of our history. Civil War. It preserves a piece of the Confederacy's industrial history. To honor history. Preserving the history of the nation and Civil War artifacts, landmarks and memories. To tell the story of the Civil War. Major part of U.S. history. Important part of Richmond's local history and significant to overall war. Teaching history-understanding. American history. Civil War-have to know where we've come to know where we're going. Heart of the Confederacy war machine. Historical. It is very important to our country to know this history. Keeping young generations aware of our history. The Civil War and its repercussions. To keep the history of the war available to all. Beyond compare. it states the importance of Richmond to U.S. history. Keeping the history alive. To show the history of the American Civil War, and to avoid history repeating itself."
71,Bryce Canyon NP,BRCA,"The geology of ----. To preserve the natural look of our country and its history. Everything very good. Cool rock formations. To remind us all of the natural beauty. Getting back to the origins ---- ---- and ---- to ----. Saving beautiful space. Wilderness, beauty of the nature wilderness. It is a place full of ---- ----.  ---- you can be ---- ---- ----. What ---- ranger and ---- ---- one take care of it ---- we're in ---- world should be the ----. Tea ----. The ----. Katie Rocks. Student volunteer Katy was great. Student volunteer, Katy was great. Student volunteer, Katy, Katie was great. Preservation of natural beauty. Fabulous! The beauty of the Amphitheater. Displaying the geographic diversity of this Country. Big time! Preserving American beauty for the world to see!  America's best ----. Natural beauty.  Native American ties.  Geological timeline. The Rock formations. Sheer beauty. Beautiful. The beautiful natural ---- of the world. Learn about the past world. The physical beauty and it's history. Unique land features. Natural state. Conservation should be the goal. Like no other place in the world. It is significant because of hoodoos and history of Ebaneezer Bryce, beautiful park! Natural beauty. Unique-protection for future. Very nice place I'm ---- to visit, easy to get around. International significance high. Beautiful U.S. treasure. Mountain formation. To maintain the unique nature of the beauty of the place. The natural beauty; unique geography. Protecting beautiful land for future generations and the wildlife. Very historical. Educational, beauty, and outdoor camping. Unique geological features. Uniqueness that is not found anywhere else, both the geology and ----. ----. Hoodoos, unique geological formations. National treasure which needs to be protected. The unique hoodoos. Natural beauty of the American continental. Sight of rock formations not found any where else! Picturesque and informative. There's nowhere else on the world like ---- Outstanding scenery. It's unique. To preserve the beauty of nature together with the people. Dark ---- spectacular scenery. A unique ---- Nature, vows, trails. American natural beauty ---- for all. Geologic formations. The history and culture of the area. To appreciate geographic ----. The geological formations are unique and need protection from development. Nature in it's uncommercialized state. Conserve the nature, ---- ----. This park and all those who work in showed us every day the best side of America. Weird question, I'm from Holland. The beauty of all the natural features in the area. Our parks are the antiquities of our nation. To honor, geological and cultural foundations of the area. All nationalities are here, ---- the beauty of the U.S. and oil ---- splendor. It helps to symbolize the spectacular and actually indescribable beauty of America. Nature. Beauty! ---- 0 Red mountains. Preserve natural beauty. Sorry... Dutch Citizen!  ---- ---- has historical significance (early tourism). One of the most beautiful places on earth. The beauty of the nature. It is a geological, natural and cultural asset.  It is unique in its class. Geology-beautiful vistas. It is vital to preserve this. It's unlike any other park! The views are great and the sunset last night was wonderful. Physical forms and forces that helped to shape and produce what our physical world looks like. History of U.S. To show and preserve the beauty of our nation. Bryce NP is a national treasure, a place of natural beauty.  It is also culturally significant, from pre-Paiute, to Paiute Indians, Mormon settlers, and modern day tourists. Scenery. It is geographically unique.  Worldwide famous, needs to be protected for future generations. Geology and scenery. Unique beauty, geology. Shows God beauty. Beautiful and unique landmark! The beauty. Beauty, you cannot find anywhere else in the nation and unique landscape. How the Earth as changed. The beauty. Geological (----). Geologically excellent. Beauty. Capturing unique topography. Beauty and knowledge of earth. Beauty and ----. Awesome site to visit. Amazing natural beauty. Geological wonders and marvels which must be preserved. Outstanding natural beauty. Beautiful landscape with history to be shared. Geological formations. To keep nature pure and beautiful. Preserve and protect history and ecological wonder of this amazing place.  Teach others of this unique place. The views and the great walk. It's beauty. Protecting our natural resources should be our national priority.  These beautiful places would be exploited and destroyed if not protected. Geologic formations unlike any other in the world. It is an excellent way for people all around the world to experience the beauty of nature. It's amazing. Unique rock formations and tourist altitude training. Natures formation of Hoodoos. To know how nature could be really spectacular more than people think about it. This is a show piece of the grandeur of the American West.  So many visitors from other countries are here to witness and experience it. Rocks. Bryce is amazing due to the geological hoodoos, milkway, bristlecone pines and quilt reflection.  The astronomy program and interpretation program is excellent. Amazing views and hikes. Special combination of geology, natural history and recreation. Hoodoos. Showing magnificence of nature, having very informative well educated rangers to explain it. The national significance would be the geological formation. Hoodoos area phenomenal. Indian story. Natural beauty for all generation to enjoy. Beauty of the geologic features and how nature creates beauty. Preserving vistas and natural landscapes. Appreciating the beauty of this magnificent park. 0 The only canyon that has the rock formations of this types.  Bryce canyon is one of kind. Teachers young and old to value our natural world and resources. A protected national phenomenon and a link to our past. My taxes pay for our wonderful national parks.  Foreigners do NOT pay our taxes so they should pay at least DOUBLE the entrance fee. Unique rock formations and canyons. Presents unique features of our landscape, topography, geology and earths historical and on going transformation. Unusual geographic features, amazing hiking and viewing of the night sky. Native American heritage."
72,Buffalo NR,BUFF,"Provides a rich cultural insight to America's natural resources and the need to preserve such resources for future generations! Enjoyment of nature and appreciation of our state. River and natural beauty. Family goes there every other year since 2000 because of the beautiful river. Keeping the gorgeous river clean and beautiful! The national significance is to preserve the beauty and access to the Buffalo National River. The natural beauty of the area is it's significance to me.  The river is beautiful. It lets you see how well things were built back in the day.  Wish you were allowed to take better care of cabin. Maintain and protect the beautiful natural forest and river.  Also to tell the story of the area. The Buffalo River and camping. Preserve beautiful river, giving people the chance to enjoy nature. The River. Hiking trails, river. The beauty, the quiet, the view. Very annoying having to hold the water ""on"" button constantly with one hand the whole time you shower.  VERY ANNOYING. A free flowing river of exceptional beauty, and numerous recreational opportunities.  An example of the real America.  Tyler visitor center is first rate. Natural beauty. It is a beautiful river but the park is not well maintained. Natural Springs. Rest relaxing-natural beauty. All natural. Beautiful area-great for camping, canoeing, rafting, etc. Protecting the Old MT. heritage and the Buffalo river for future generations. True nature and habitat. National beauty and landscape that needs to be preserved. One of very few rivers ----- in the country. The national river and the wilderness area around it. Beautiful scenery and water recreation. Serves the Buffalo River area which is very important to be saved. The ability to be completely immersed in nature and find people that love it as much as you do. It's an area that's protected and undeveloped making its historical value immeasurable! Being the first national river in the U.S. and for not being dammed. The Buffalo River-just don't encroach on any private property rights of the surrounding area. Wonderful sight seeing, geology. First Wild River protected-a model for all others.  Outstanding experience of nature and Ozark Region. A place for families, can go and be in nature, rest and relax. An example of what free ---- ---- can be. Highly important, it's too bad humans are destroying the planet, and always leave trash behind. Maintain integrity and health of Buffalo River. Nature. Elk and safe water. To have a clean, beautiful view to enjoy is of great significance-USA is proud of this area! To let people know the significance of our natural beauty.  A true phenomenon is the Buffalo River. Preserve a unique natural area. It's a walk back in time to a simpler life, a life still appreciated by the local population. Protect the river and surrounding area and wildlife. The preservation of natural habitat and the river is of utmost importance to our children. Natural beauty.  Ozark culture. Preserving nature. River watershed management for recreational opportunities. To preserve history and nature. Beautiful and unique. Excellent back to nature adventures allow Americans to experience the great outdoors. The Buffalo River is our favorite river to canoe and we have canoed in 18 states and Canada. To preserve part of our heritage. Incredible beauty. To educate people and share nature. I have been coming to the BR since the mid-seventies.  I brought my children, and now grandchildren.  This parks is a wonderful area to teach children and grandchildren about the wonderful state of Arkansas. Beautiful recreation area. Preserve beauty of river. Beautiful river. River.  We love the river. Beautiful river for family use. One of America's free flowing rivers. The recreational facilities available. First National River-a beautiful ecosystem; important to conserve the land. Unique geology and cultural history of the Ozarks is of immense local significance and that's the root of national pride, IMO! Conservation and preservation of natural resources and introduction of natural ideas to public. Beautiful, serene, a lot of snakes, friendly people. Good. It has unique beauty and outdoor opportunities.  It also holds a special place in the culture of this region. Awesome example of ---- Beautifully preserved park really kept in good condition. Preservation of the plant and ----. Nature, facilities. Protecting a natural river habitat. Natural beauty and wildlife.  Lots of exploring and adventuring to be had by all who visit! First national river."
73,Eisenhower NHS,EISE,"President Eisenhower is probably overlooked in history.  This park helps to tell his story. To be educated about one of our Presidents-how their life shaped the Nation.  Always want to see HOW they lived. Learning is life long.  The ability to have this available and keeping the history alive is so important to our nation.  Thank you. To understand history, why important figures did what they did, what influences they had on others. To show the private side of Eisenhower's life. President Eisenhower ran everything from here. Preserving history of different generations. History President ---- down to earth! Preserving history. Excellent. History-I learned so much more and all the employees vol and reg were great.  You have an awesome staff. To preserve the Eisenhower history and relevance. You can always learn from history. Primarily the link between IKE and Gettysburg. To preserve and educate.  Preserve history and educate future generations. Preserving history. To see a different era and how they lived. Presidential!  Historical. It is a presidential home.  The lives of the presidents are always historically significant. Place to honor those who offered outstanding service to our country. It preserves the home and tells the life story of a great general and president. The life of Eisenhower away from military and White House. History lesson for my children.  Seeing and reading. It's great to see how the ex president lived it seemed like a normal life. Like was a very important part of our history, which we must keep alive. I visited a place where a great president lived. The original condition of the house and grounds.  My kids really liked how the old timers lived. Depicts civil war and the after math. Very important. One must always know what came before and what is now in order to preserve the past for us. It reminds us of our history, as it truly was during the time of the Eisenhower's. A place where all rich and power can come to visit a piece of US history. A president that profoundly cared about all Americans. Eisenhower was great leader and President.  Great to see how he lived. Historical significance. That the grounds are maintained so well! The history of Eisenhower. Very important to be aware of history.  Schools seem to be teaching less of it as time passes. It preserves an important persona and time in history. It was intriguing to see what life was like back then involving the Secret Service and it's beginning. The view and just seeing were my relative lived. Very significant. We over came civil war and we will over come today's adversities. Lots of history. Eisenhower was an important general and president.  Understanding history (real true history) is important for the future of U.S. Very nicely done. Lessons of the Civil War and national unity. Excellent reminder of the importance of this battle during the civil war. Presidential home and proximity to Gettysburg battlefield. Restore and learn of our past. Ike! President Eisenhower is the first president I personally remember.  His history is very important. It allowed our nation to continue. Seeing how they lived. It inspires pride in our country. A good glimpse of a part of history (time). Presidents house. Reminds us of the great men and women who came before us. Eisenhower's farm and history and events. Knowledge of history. Each president made his mark in U.S. history.  This farm and related stories help us understand the 34th President of the U.S. Very significant. A way to see and feel the cost and pain of war.  There has got to be a better way.  A great deal of this family is cost prohibitive for large families. Giving insight to the life personally and values of one of our leaders. It is important to see how our leaders lived.  Eisenhower's were important to the nation in the 20th century. To show a different sign of Eisenhower. The house of a two term President leader of allied France in WWII. The home of the 34th President. Historical significance is immeasurable! How a home looked in 1950 as well as a representation of the Eisenhower's personalities and life stories. I feel it gave a very personal insight into the life of one of our presidents. I love presidents dedication. It is extremely significant as the battle of Gettysburg was a turning point for the civil war and our nation's future. It was great seeing how a president and his family lived, it is amazing to see the historical items preserved and displayed. Very important reminder of a strong and positive leader and his supportive wife. We should not forget how horrific war, and especially Civil Was is to any Nation. A real treasure.  A reminder of our past, and the realness of their life. Eisenhower's home is a remarkable insight into the person of such significance to the 20th Century. Preserve life of a great leader. Loved the history. To honor the 34th president and first lady. Very important part of history that should never be forgotten. Welcome spot for all world leaders and all countries. To learn about the president, his life during and after his presidency. To give people a better understanding of our presidents. Great reminder of a real leader! Remembering history and learning from it. Great way to learn about one of your President's life and family. History of USA president. It's important to learn and remember our history. Eisenhower is history.  I have been to his childhood home/library in Abeline, KS.  This is great! Eisenhower was a great general, president, and man of peace. Ike. Shows history of the owners life. History. History, many students cannot realize how the people who lived this era, it shows them the better lifestyle. It is the key battle of the Civil War. To see a man go from ordinary background, rise up and support and represent our country honorably; then to see him be able to live an American dream and enjoy the fruits of his labor. Was significant by allowing citizens to see and actually walk through the home of one of the nations most influential presidents. This park is of great significance because through sites like this, our Nation's history is preserved and communicated to and passed on, to the visitors. IKE's played a big part in transitioning from War to Peace. Every American needs to know and understand the history of this place and the entire surrounding area of Gettysburg. I think it's important to use this now as a part of history. Ground owned by past president. Alas, too few people know about this nation and its true history.  Keep up the good work."
74,Golden Spike NHS,GOSP,"Very significant, unity symbol. Very significant important part of the nation's history. The transcontinental railroad was a pathfinder for-cross-country transportation of today.  It was a incredible feat. Building a nation. Historical importance. It is historic movie capturing the innovation of locomotives combined with the aspirations to connect the country from coast to coast. The bonding of the nation right after civil war. Very important. Represents a significant ---- in our nation's history. Connecting the East and West by ----. The joining of the railways made possible Westward expansion. Joining the nation by joining the RR. The history of the railroad is important to remember and memorialize because it helped us as a Nation. Historical ICON The evolution of the ---- American history and the ---- of the buffalo and nature. History. 0 Very important. Historical information. Reminder of manifest destiny. Rail history, joining our coasts changed the U.S. dramatically. Interprets the building of the 1st transcontinental RR, which was critical to unity East and West of the US. Uniting the country for transportation and commerce was a major factor in our country's growth and success. ---- Progress. One of the great events of the 19th century. I'm happy that this history is being preserved. Very significant. History of development of US. Unified the country. It is very cool to see the trains and know that the railroads came together in my home state. ---- Part of nation building and settlement of the West, economic prosperity, immigration. The starting of a nation. Very interesting!! To show the significance of railroad travel in 1800's and the huge impact of being able to travel from coast to coast by rail. This is a great National Park. Great history lesson. The accomplishment of working together and tying the nation together. The beginning of the ---- of the West and ---- U.S. Bringing the railroad and connecting East and West. Better travel. A lot of history here. Completion of ---- railroad very interesting! Preserving history and education of younger generations. This settled America. Very significant. Westward expansion. It ---- to bringing the country together. Symbolic of a global economy. The unity of the nation. Extremely important to our nation's history losing sight of this would be our demise. Very important-route across USA from East to West! Appreciation of joining the coasts of America and it's significance. Heritage/history. ---- A piece of our history. East meets West end of an era. Golden Spike is a vital link between the West of the past and the West as it currently ----. History of the Western expansion/settlements. Hugely important in forging the connections for developing the West and the country overall. Important point in developing country by finally connecting East and West. It preserves of one of the turning points in the nation's development very nice! Major moment in history-we were planning to come here for years. Significant ---- in commerce. Signified the ability to travel though one side of the country to the other is a much shorter time than horse and wagon. So historic and important to our industrial history! The building of a nation-connecting people with tremendous possibilities. The history of achievement. The history of opening up the West. Utmost importance!! Yes, this is a major advancement in both technology and history linking east and west. Amazing history of our nation. Wish it was bigger and more attractions. Excellent! The driving of the gold spikes. This was a huge changing point in the way things ---- across the country. It is a major landmark in our nation's history. Keeping history alive for all to see. The Goldmen Spike story and railroad demonstration of a time gone by. Western expansion, join the two coasts. Great opportunity to see railroad history. It's the location where east and west made modern travel and convenience possible.  The taming of the west. Railroad history. History is important. The interpretation of one of the key events in American history-it puts what you learned in U.S. history into contact. Joining the continent east to west the ability to transport goods and travelers in less time. The joining of the east to the west, enabling travel in only 10 days time vs 6 mos. Educational and fun.  Historic and cool. Working together. It is a ---- ---- ---- ---- the ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. Important. 0 Celebrating ---- ---- ---- ----, new transportation in ---- ---- ---- and services. Meeting of each coast.  Commerce exploration. Most important site in railroad history! The joining of east and west by rail. The meeting of east meets west for train service. Keeps history alive and shows the transportation/communication advancement. The connecting of the coasts by rail greatly improved immigration across the country. Wonderful way to see our history. Connecting the east and west. Brought east and west together. Historical education had grand children 9 and 11 with us, great to see ---- come together. Historical!  Bucket list item. History or the development of US commerce. I'm a history teacher, so the historical value of these railroads being built is immense. Important historical value, great learning. Intercontinental railroad. It brought the east and west coasts together. Joining of a nation. Major impact for US. development. Opened up the opportunities to be a world power (along with loss of way of life for natives). Show my kids history. The park shows me the significance of history.  It is full of awesomeness where people created machinery and technologies with very little. The union of the transcontinental railroad.  The people who built it and the hardships they endured. Very historic-linked nation. Very important for our nation's history. Economic prosperity for the nation. Excellent. History and changing culture of the U.S. History. Joining the east and west efficient transportation. Show significance of the railroad company expansion out west. This park signifies the connection of two different worlds, the east coast and west coast, areas that had been separated by a long arduous journey. It marked a significant turning point in the settling of the west. Having a railroad from one side of the continent to the other.  Sea to shining sea. The unity of country by rail. Connected all of the country together. Educational-the reenactment was excellent!  My children and I both learned a great deal about an accomplishment that changed our century. History. Connecting of east and west.  ---- ---- and transports of goods. It preserves a vital park of U.S. history. First transcontinental railroad. Change was dramatic in our history. Historical-cultural. In my opinion, I feel the significance is the bringing east and west together. Movements and goods for people across the states brought the east and west together. To show it's national importance to the railroad industry. Where east meets west. This site connected East and West and brought our Country together in ways that still impact us today. Connection of East and West Coasts, changes to commerce and society, history of immigration. Very significant to connecting East and West!  Movement of people and goods. Advances in technology, ----. It brought the East and West together. This point and what happened here are key to Westward expansion and growth of the Nation. Connect the East and West to make this a complete Nation. The joining of our Nation, opening up the West from the East. The completion of a project that was believed to be impossible. Yeah, it's pretty significant. Yes. I am very interested in history and couldn't wait to visit this park.  In my opinion it is very significant. Very important part of the U.S. history. Railroads were a huge part of our country's development and ---- or ---- ----.  This represents the more well ---- ---- ---- need history. Joining of transcontinental railroad. Very significance, ---- on ---- ---- remember. The growth of the country! It linked the east to the west which was very important for transportation, migration, and unity. Joining east to west growth. Very important and inspiring.  Interesting, important part of history. It is very big, as it shows how progress was made. The railroad was essential for developing this country. Transportation. It speaks to the industry of the time.  The symbolic linking of the coasts was also economically important. The railroads transformed our nation.  This site brings this fact ""home."" Combining the west and east lines for a more united nation.  Ease of travel to either side of the nation. Progress and unity-historically significant. Tied the country together.  ---- opened first transcontinental railroad. It symbolizes the unity of the nation. Key point in the expansion of the nation. The transcontinental railroad united the West Coast and East Coast with significance to make America strong. Important-signifies the transportation that helped develop this nation. Very important, only one. Connected our country. Transportation. Joining both railroads coast to coast. National transportation. Very significant.  A way for us to learn about the history of our nation.  Trains were great. Cooperation. History of the nation.  History of technology and transportation. The joining of the nation, east and west. Westward expansion, where our nation was united by rail. Connect nation by rail. Unification of east and west. Is is a turning point in cross-country travel. The establishment of widely available transcontinental commerce and transportation. It is a good example of what we enjoy in this country and of the ingenuity of the American people ---- ----. Connection of the nation and people. Transcontinental railroad. Completion of the railroad was a major turning point in U.S. history. Connected east and west North America.  Enabled development of expansion of U.S., and economically major milestone. Historical info and site to be remembered. Westward migration, plus to immigration. A major milestone in growth and development of our country is celebrated here. Historical value.  I've taught hundreds of fifth-graders about this site and it meant a lot to actually get to see and experience this location. History of transportation/railroad in the development of the U.S.. Teaches about Chinese slave labor, greed of railroad companies.  Both necessities to accomplish this feat. The building of the railroads-and the affect of this feat on the U.S., Native Americans, etc.. To teach the history of railroading. Very important. Historic value. Historical. Interesting. It allowed for the movement of people and freight to populate the nation. It is history you can touch and see, rather than simply read about. The display of transcontinental railroad connection. To keep history alive! Completion of the Transcontinental Railroad. It is a point of uniting the Country physically, providing opportunity for any one to freely travel the Country from sea to sea. Meeting point of Transcendental Railroad. Commemorating an important even in America's history that truly accelerated the Settling of the West. Proof to show how greed makes things to happen in ----. Very +. Power, control:  Man's attempt to unite the masses and institute the bondage of time.  The 'RR' brought conscience of regulation. The joining of the East and West U.S.-eliminating the need to travel around South America. Railroads were important in the Mid-1800's.  Part of our Nation Western migration and ship products to a market or distribution point. One of the most important ---- U.S. history. Where East, West and Industry reunited. American History-becoming a ---- ----. Great Service! Yes, it opened the West! How it brings a significant time in history to life. The joining of the Country. Unifying the country. All history is important. The launching of our Nation from the East to the West. Commemorates the completion of the east-west railroad which improved transportation of people and goods. I feel it is very important to preserve this site for it's historical significance in connecting the two coasts of the early U.S. The railroad connected the east and the west, and thus began the rapid technological advances of the 20th century. This park helps us to understand the significance of the railroads in the building of our nation. I'm a RR fan born and raised. Also read books by Bain and Ambrose about RR. Love this moment to our transcontinental RR. American drive.  Linking East to West. History-needed good history. It highlights the linkage of our nation by railroad, thus truly making us 1 nation.  This location has great historical significance. It was outstanding! Making the U.S. the large country it is. Combined displays and movie, it illustrated the engineering ---- and skill/fortitude of the workers of the mid 1800's."
75,Sunset Crater Volcano NM,SUCR,"Volcanic eruption. Great explanations of migrations. Historic value to indigenous people. Educates about the area. Geological; native people. Preserving the cultural and natural resources located here. Geology, astronomy, Hx-clean air-can't be found elsewhere.  Easily accessible to mobile-challenged, too! The volcano where people were around to experience it. Education. Natural beauty, aesthetics, vegetation, cultural importance. The volcanic activity that changed the landscapes. Amazing place. We loved it and really like the improvements.  We enjoyed the improvements made over the last two decades. Learn from education. I'm Spanish, but I like it. Walked through lava flows. We get to see volcanic nature up close. Geologic history. Close hear experience to young volcano, clear fresh air. Historical and conservation. Relatively recent volcano. Prehistoric eruption and potential. My significance of this park is that Sunset is super beautiful and very interesting and fun to walk around. The cultural ties some native tribes have to the area as well as the geologic significance. Gives a view of how nature and people affect each other, and shows how life survives ---- in harsh conditions; like living in a city is harsh. Yes!  Very cool to see. Look at recent volcanic activity. National parks could not be more valuable and important!  So thankful for the chance to learn and observe natural glory! Peaceful walk and not too many people.  History of the Sunset Crater. I'm Spanish, but this park is amazing. It will help us to understand volcanoes and what they mean to our environment. The history of the volcano-didn't even know this existed.  This was just amazing! ---- ----, history, science, geography. Beauty preservation. Everything. Extremely significant. Great history-keep it in its original condition. I have never gotten opportunity to see a lava flow.  This is very extensive and beautiful. It shows a different American landscape than most Americans are used to. It's for the people to learn more about nature. Its pristine natural beauty. Study the geology-environment-to help our people. The preservation of the cinder cone-it is a classic. I don't know. Uniquely ----. High-based on educational value. All of our parks are treasures and should be supported properly by Congress. Interesting to be close to volcanic area. Somewhat ----, very unique but less ---- than other parks. It formed all of the mountains/stuff around ----. We enjoyed it. Volcano. All the lava stone is amazing! The park offers a lot of history of area and how the locals grew up here. It shows that this country had volcanic activity. Preserving a lava flow and crater.  Very important educational opportunity. Very important. Volcanic history in states. Volcano. 0 History. It is beautiful!! It shows a very different type of landscape then most other national parks. Viewing of lava fields and ruins. Volcano and lava flow. The science of volcanic eruptions and its impact on society. People from the East get education on volcanoes. Thanks for the interp signs. It holds history that younger generation would appreciate to know. Dominant volcano that we can visit and lave flows. History and beauty for all to see. Intimacy with the earth and her processes. Preservation of Geologic History. The geological history and the history it tells us."
76,Chattahoochee River NRA,CHAT,"It preserves the great river of the south for all and shows importance of recreational out doors. It's a treasure. Three teens and two adults Sherman crossed the Cahattahoochee here. I hate to say it, but I moved here from Texas and don't know, civil war? Native/locals outdoor recreation been coming have to exercise and enjoy the outdoors since a very young child. First time visitor. Mow grass close to walk way. Preserving nature and wild life. Chattahoodie river area. Nature preservation and public land use. 0 To allow the nation to co exist the nature and man. River ecology. Activity, history. I don't see park rangers they have always been well informed and ---- when we do ----. Beauty! 0 Ride-protection. Outdoor exercise, health, overall good feeling. This park is worthy every penny we ever spent. Beautiful river national area in metro area. Relate to nature in an ---- area. Important trails along river preservation. Preservation of natural forests in metro area.  Historic residence of former state supreme court justice. Open space in urban area that has too little. Space, environment, nature protect the parks. River preservation. It is the first national water trail.  Beautiful park units along river in urban area. I honestly don't know the significance nationally but I love it as an institution in Atlanta. Preserving nature and allowing people to deserve and use it. I don't know. River preservation. It is an important place, a place to come and relax.  ---- our country needs! Great opportunity to spend type in nature-especially in large metro area like ----. Great place to be active, enjoy the outdoors, and step away from the city. To preserve the beauty of the Cahattahoochee river area and allow the public to enjoy recreational activities. Waterway is urban setting protected. Natural beauty, outdoor activity, nature-historical significance. Not known. Serves the community and preserves nature. Natural habitat!  Peaceful. Offers a beautiful ---- ----. It increases interest and awareness of the chatahoorie river which impacts the southeast and it's water service. Natural beauty. The bicycles should have a space ----!  More presents of Rangers on a quarterly basis. Keeping fit and environmental. Good health of residents. Extremely important!  Let's maintain it. My escape from reality. Give people a fun and safe experience in nature. History of the Chattahoochee. It's important to be able to connect with nature, especially with all the contributions with the new ---- park.  We want more fields to play in! This park is such a beautiful representation of Georgia. Friends of River helped to create this park.  Jimmy Carter signed the bill. School track teams should not be allowed to fill lots and take over entire parking areas.  As visitation grows, parking MUST be expanded.  It's irresponsible to not accommodate more parking.  I also think the alligator may be an excuse to no longer maintain that section of trail-the prettiest one here.  I miss it. Safe place to walk/run/bike. River, beauty, trails. Running. Saving areas natural next to river.  Having green space and educational activities. Beautiful stretch of the river and floral and fauna native to the region. Chattahoochee River.  Love viewing areas of river from docks built. Increases awareness and the importance of our green space and environment. Conservation. Preserving God's planet. The beautiful river we drink from-keep it pristine! Preserves the Chattahoochee River national area for public enjoyment. Education about local wildlife and protection of the environment. Didn't even know that until I got my sticker.  This is a great park. Maintain green space near an urban area. Protecting the river water shed. The natural beauty of Chattahoochee River ----. Church, community, picnic.  Exercise and good health. Green space is vital! Civil War camp. To connect people to nature. A tranquil place to enjoy. To provide a natural landscape for citizens to use and enjoy. Preservation. It brings a great piece of nature and recreation close to the city. ----, ----, prosperity, peace, nature and occasional. I am not sure, but I would like for more info to be ---- displayed for further learning on cultural and historical significance. Beautiful tract of land.  Wonderful that it has been preserved. Opportunity for ---- to enjoy nature. Not the invasive plants all over the trail. The river.  Fishing opportunities. Wildlife, plants, waters. Premier trout fishing stream. Green space. Fun on the river. News, resources and wild life for future generations. Scenic beauty. Nature. That fine chocolate ranger at the visitor center. It is a good place to get out of the city and get into the wilderness. Chance to appreciate beauty of GA nature in city. It provides a safe place to enjoy the outdoors and appreciate the natural beauty of GA. Preserves USA wildlife in a metro area. Excellent. Important for our future. Native Americans. Recreation for all. Jump in river. Appreciate water. Education and preservation. Fun! Recreation and historic preservation. I feel dumb that I don't know. It's nice outdoors for the area. Natural resource for ---- wish it were better maintained. Various animals, rides trails river. Keep up national wildlife. Great place to enjoy nature and have fun with friends. Awesome. Great park. Enjoy it several times a year. Proximity to a very awesome and important river.  Probably some people's first exposure to the outdoors and their place in it/responsibility. It is a place where friends can come together and enjoy nature. Learning about nature. Not sure but it's beautiful here! Unsure. River new. Best trout fishing in the SE! Southernmost trout fishing! Historic Jones Bridge. Great way to connect with nature. It's beautiful. Waterway and biology and history. The park emphasizes that the true importance of Georgian is not only beauty in nature, but beauty in good company. I love hiking! Promotes healthy lifestyle. None. Credit card fee stations available and all parks. To bring people to nature and expand an area for wildlife to live. To preserve our wildlife. Change net work; accessibility to community relative safety. It gives citizens a chance to experience nature without being on private property or needing money to buy the property. Very important to learn about nature. To protect nature and the natural habitats. Great place to get out and enjoy nature. Great network of parks along the river.  The Chottphotee connects cities and states. Saves the AD near the river. Appreciation of nature. Very good river and natural. It's good to visit in week. Protecting beautiful areas from being bulldozed. Resource for the community to enjoy the river and woods. It's an awesome place to picnic, bring family, friends and dogs."
77,El Morro NM,ELMO,"Important landmark and stopping point for travelers from ---- ---- through the 20th century. All of the legendary people who passed through here.  Truly remarkable!  Very unique landscape as well! Indians to Spanish to ... generations of people that passed by wonderful to know. Just breath taking. To educate and appreciate. Average and all 3 rangers were nice and happy to talk to us and give a good ---- of the trail. Yes. Early tourists. Cultural and the beginning of our countries history. Everything. Cultural. Historical record. Cultural and ---- importance. Ancient pueblo; inscriptions of ----; ancient waterhole. The inscriptions and pool. A geological time piece. It's history. An artifact that records the beauty of ---- travels through this area, ----. 0 Multiple great facts of N.A. all seem ----.  Fantastic views! Tour guide book is great!  Both park rangers were friendly and helpful. Travel stop for multiple cultures over thousands of years. To preserve the voices of the past still reaching out to the future. Inscription history was fascinating!  Thank you! Preservation of natural and historic sites. The rich history. The historical importance of the inscriptions. Very important!  Our national parks are out treasures! At least 3 cultures Spanish explores, ----. Of bringing all people and nations in United States history into one common place. History, natural resource. It was very significant to our nations history. Absolutely significant-wonderful place we just ""happened"" upon a real treasure!!! History. We have been to most of our national parks and 40 other countries.  Nothing compares to OUR national park service. It's a ---- of a ---- of the American history. Amazing little piece of history! Historical inscriptions, ruins. History of America and the southwest. History. It demonstrates the importance of western man and progressive impressions made here. It is a historic artifact that ---- back before it was ----. Preserving history. Preserving our past. The wealth of different people coming together for it use. This location had been a cross road for hundreds of years.  It is an important piece of history. To learn about history and culture, loving the outdoors and enjoying time with love ones. Very significant-we need to continue the preservation. Amazing record of ----. Ancestral doing. History is good. Our ancestors were once here. Preservation of and education about ancestor pueblo ----. The history is written on the wall literally! It's the story of the land and people 1000 years ago, before the U.S. was even a thought. The ruins in the movement are a testament to the hard life of the ---- people and the respect they showed to the nature. This is a part of our country.  Thank you for having this place available. To learn about travel from the past. Yes. Surveyed 5 kids age Jacob 6, ---- 6, Tyler 6, Bobby 8, Eric 9. History. Native American Village. The history of the original pueblo who inhabited the land. Native American history and military/American conquest history. Preservation of ancient civilization. To document and display a historic stop of our nation and people before that time. Beauty, amazing Southwest history. Indigenous history and resistance to colonialism.  Many histories here: native, Spanish, ----, Mexican and natural history. It's an incredible picture of history in this land.  Absolutely amazing.  Makes me want to learn more about the history of New Mexico. The park is very well established, and also very historical. History of moving West. Extremely valuable to preserve for future generations. It's history and flora and fauna. The ruins (Indian) are a part of NM history. A national and geological treasure, and well worth being a national forest. History. More than I knew-on the first route West.  Glad I stopped. Preserving Pueblo sites and historical signatures of Spanish, Pueblo, missionaries, etc. Retaining history of the Spanish in New Mexico and of early settlers in the West. The recording of the history of early settlers. Yes.  Very historic and educational. The history.  This park is significant because the first white European explores passed through here. Amazing. Finding my great grandpa name on the inscription rock!  Amazing experience of history. Great experience.  Fun trip.  Thank you for talking and explaining. Great reminder of Americas prehistory. Historically significant because of ---- and inscriptions. History of Indian and Spanish influence. It's wonderful history I'd never learn about unless I came here and our history shapes today and our future. National landmark. Preservation of history awesome sight. The heritage of we the people and our creator. To preserve the Native peoples culture and history for generations to follow ours. Very important park.  Jeremiah helped explain it to me and was so interesting.  Very nice! Wow!  Lots for Indian, Spanish, and Anglo w/ here. Yes-we as a nation need to tread lightly and preserve our world treasures. Awareness of different culture that used this area at different times. The beauty of the rock formations and the history of the inscriptions. Historical perspective. Multi-cultural history.  It conveys different waves of immigrants who traveled through and settled indigenous people's lands. The history of the peoples and travelers through time. Record of historical occupation prior to American Territory and shortly after US occupation. The native American rooms, and the beautiful path along the mountain. Preserve the multicultural history. History of past visitors and natural beauty. The ----, signatures on the rock, and ruins. Great! Holy place for ----, ---- landscape ----. Incredible historical significance in the inscriptions. Preservation of history, natural areas. The water source in the desert the awesome rock formations and trees, the historical etchings. History/scenic wonder. I felt there could have been more history aimed toward the pictographs of animals/figures. Our countries wonderful cultural history. Preserving historic markings that tell the story of this region-great accessibility. The significance is due to the signatures. This park preserves artifacts of all the cultural groups that are still present in New Mexico. Historic and cultural value. Appreciation of nature and our earth and it's formations. Interesting nice trail. History. Great. Natural beauty. Preserving the importance of past history for future generations. Unbelievable! It is a wonderful trip through history. Preserving history of encryptions and glyphs teaching the next generation. Very, very good history. It was awesome should let the public swim. Investing history of emigration and ancient culture together. Existence of first people then Spaniards.  Later U.S. army, wagon train. A treasure to be preserved for and enjoyed by all. Pristine environment resulting in honor for those who came before us. El Morro marks a crossroads of many different people-the wall is like a stone guest book! History-beauty. Keep it wild and free!  The outdoors and history are such a valuable part of our lives. It shows what this country look like before to people now. The OVERALL HISTORY-it's indeed a ""treasure"". Insight into early native American life, interaction with Europeans. Conquistadors and Zuniand Navajo tribes in the area, which led to the Pueblo revolt. Beyond important. Cultural and natural history of the great migration west and the interaction with native peoples. Early settlers that paved our way west. Heritage reminder in history. Historic/cultural values, beauty of outdoors. I appreciate being able to observe and connect to the way of life and ancient native American's. I think seeing the cross over of different time periods was very useful. It is extremely historical I come out at least 5 times a year. Preservation of the past-reminding us that we impact our world and need to treat it gently! The beauty of the location and the historical significance of the wall. The history of our people. Well preserved part of our collective history. The rock formations and, especially, petroglyphs from ancient puebloans are spectacular. Preserving history at it's best great job. The dates. Historic park of national significance a visitor through time. History and El Morro is one of the most beautiful parks that I have ever visited. Preservation.  Knowledge.  Appreciation. Revisit the past. The historical writings on the El Morro.  History that we can actual see. The history of early explorers and same of their routes. The travel of many people of different states and countries, in a time where wagons were the only source of transport helps us understand the beauty of difficulties better. The walk on the mesa has to be one of the best in the world. Very great significance.  This should be here forever and earn respect nationally. Historical. Unique part of history, value of water, beautiful scenery. Save the history of migration. History. Western settlement and migration. Settlers passing through.  Ruins of old nations. The history of it. The history that was made here. To preserve history and natural beauty. Historical heritage, nature, unique marvel of El Morro cliff. Historic. The historical and cultural significance of the past generations that have come through. Preservation of the inscriptions and history of the bluffs. HISTORY, especially for overseas visitors. It helps maintain the history of the indigenous people who lived here. Recognition of explorations, lifestyle of inhabitants. All the people that were here before me. Historical benefit. Beauty, historical, ecological. Being outdoors in nature is essential to living a happy and peaceful life.  ""Wilderness is a NECESSITY""-Muir. Excellent marked trail to the top and good preservation of ruins. Historical, environmental, landscape. History, geology, culture, ecology, beauty, botany. I feel like it's very valuable, showing the historical convergence of multiple cultures. Nice combo of nature and history. Preservation. Preserve history. Reminder that the U.S. is many people through many times. Very significant-historical value is huge.  Geological value is great as well. This park seems to trace the whole known history, so much more so than other parks. History, nature. A huge part of history. An amazing resource of history. Evidence and history. Feeling the history of those who have traveled the path before us. Historical treasure, beautiful natural landmark. History! Preservation of history (pre-national). The historical perspective and information. The history of the people that left the inscriptions.  The hieroglyphics. This land belongs to all of us.  Let's keep the world clean. To learn about the past and preserve our history. Native American culture.  Early settlers who passed through. Shows our western history and migration. To protect and preserve the natural, prehistoric and historic story line of the El Morro area. Reminds us that our history includes but goes deeper than Europeans. History. The indigenous cultures of pre history and the influence of the Spanish and later immigrants. Historical and natural beauty. Native American landmark.  Important to them, important to me. Maintaining cultural significance. Preserves history that can be learned from. Preserving the history (physical and oral) of the tribe. Appreciation of early North America history and living with nature. History of a developing state of New Mexico. Part of the park is for the historical aspect and another part for the trail and landscape. Preserve a living document of Americas history and beauty. The history of water and it's importance to life, ancient ---- history being preserved. Tremendous insight into need for ""graffiti"" with early caravans. Should look into world heritage site possibilities. The scenery, the hospitality, trails and cleanliness. The inscriptions offer glimpses into the various layers of our history and how those layers intersect. The cultural history. I found the history fascinating.  It showed Spanish, American and Native American impacts VERY interesting. We are all here. Historical trail crossroads. It is ---- important place for the ---- of ---- cultural group. It serves as a reminder of the history of the southwest. The history of the people and the country. Native history. Very interesting to see the link between the Zuni and Acoma tribes through this old Indian trail. Good space/cultural significance. Native and conquering history. Camels. History of travelers. Pueblo sites, old inscriptions, beautiful views. The historical passages through the area literally laid the path for traveling cross country. This park is a major player in maintaining the history of the area and the native peoples who are living here. Reminding us history lives in our surroundings and in our lives. Amazing record of human settlement/travel in area. Preserving history. The ruins are spectacular, but the inscriptions ARE the reason for the park! Historical value. History of travel and national expansion and conflict with indigenous cultures and other groups. The Atsinna, the conquest, the history of New Mexico!!! The history of the pioneers and settlers. This park demonstrates the journeys various groups made to explore our country. Very impt. Very thankful that our nation reserves places like this.  To keep our history alive. Cultural ---- but also beautiful nature. The ---- up top. Acknowledging and protecting the human historical and cultural record for future generations. Awesome. Historical and Spanish westward expansion-RR. Historical sig. Lots of historical and cultural significance. Native American heritage, the natural beauty. Nice view and sight seeing. Protect the ruins.  Education-we have our kids with us.  Thanks! Self identity. This is an amazing historical place. This park represents ""many"" nations before it was under the United States, because of this Park's rich history, it should be preserved for everyone to enjoy and learn. To save history for others to see and appreciate. Very significant.  A pit ---- up great national importance to our nation. All the world travelers for so many years! Very historic and educational. History and beauty. Great!  Beautiful park, interesting story about inscriptions, pool, petroglyphs. Excellent historic value!  Between the inscriptions and the ruins, wonderful experience. Historic perspective of the SW and record of the people who used this site to live/travel/survive. The preservation of the history of the area from the Indian petroglyphs to the Spanish explorers and the early visitors from the other ---- of the US. Inscriptions from various people throughout time, Oasis, Pueblo. Historical value from unscriptured petroglyphs and ruins. Saving history and making it available for all.  Preserving fragile environments for future generations."
78,Dinosaur NM,DINO,"Animals, historic ranches, dinosaurs, geology of area.  Generally the incredible views. It sustains our way of life, our self image. Heritage and history. Protection of dinosaur fossils, petroglifs (spelling?) and visual resources. The historical significance of fossils as they were discovered. I don't know the history-glad David Brower and gang stopped dam.  Happy that we have preserved this wilderness, would like to know more about homesteads. Preservation of the land that harbors the dinosaurs. Preserve dinosaur fossils, beauty, geology. The protection of the dinosaur fossils for everyone.  Plus the protection of the geological record. Dinosaurs!  Preserving nature and educating the public! Great preservation of history. It beauty and personnel. Preserve the new beauty of the U.S. for the enjoyment of our children. The park is wonderful.  Thank you for protecting the dinosaurs and their scientific importance. What a beautiful place for future generations. Very important to teach ---- of the age of the earth-how old it really is. Preserving history and allowing others to see is very important. History, education, conservation! An excellent way to see the history of paleontology and some of the techniques employed. Some thing I have never before. How the all of bones found could be explained better.  The driver could say stay as long as you want, but ranger gives talk in 10 minutes. World class fossil exhibit in an unique presentation (in ----). Dinosaurs! Restoration of the bones I think is important and amazing.  It is a very good learning experience for those that want to learn. Educational. Paleontology in site. Yes. To protect a large area that is full of fossils so it is available to all people. The preservation of the Dinosaur bones and the beautiful Canyon lands. A beautiful wild river. Dinosaurs are cool. Archeological heritage. It is park of America-therefore, it is a part of MC. The only location to preserve and exhibit dinosaur bones as they were found. Great insight to a past that kids can really grasp. 0 Dinosaurs. Natural American history. Very significant. Bones rarely seen anywhere else. Learning about dinosaurs, geographic features. Very important Primary-fossils. Yampa and green ----.  Dino in rocks. Love the ancient culture! The best few to find bones. Great Historical and natural interest.  Shows us how much we don't understand about God's plans. I think you did ""good job opening some trails to dogs. Very high-we must preserve the unique fossil environment here for future generations. Education of dinosaurs. Dinosaur bones, good use of multimedia, Earl Douglas-right on! Excellent historical significance! Education and history. Preserves natural history and provides opportunity to future generations to access invaluable knowledge. Very educational and fun for the whole family. Dino fossils. ---- Prehistoric value and saving natural beauty. All parks are very important this is educational for all ages. Ancient artifacts. Good to know our taxes are providing so me great facilities.  Thank you. Historical. History. In ---- preservation and education about dinosaurs.  You could also do an ---- native plant garden.  Very helpful ----. In Sites dinosaur fossils. Preserves history of continent. That the fossils were discovered here. This park should be kept for people to view the dinosaur fossils.  I really enjoyed seeing the bones in place.  Please keep the park safe, available, and keep from harm (vandals, budgets, food).  Keep up the good work. To better educate our children and adults. Very important to view fossils in nature and discover dinosaurs that once roamed arch. Very, very good!  What an educational experience. Amazing to see fossils in place and learn about history of area. Nationally significant because of outstanding geological formations and also the ""wall"" of ----. Adds to the history and scene of the nation. Dinosaur bones-Paleontology. Earth's history! Education and preservation of our natural history instills a sense of belonging to nature and helps humans realize the need for preservation. Giving access to history of long before man ----. Invaluable! Just great history. Keep forever for history etc. Learn about dinosaurs and their era. This is history and important to all citizens. Very significant for USA and World. Very significant without the park we could not learn so well.  Visual is a lot. Prehistoric history. Dinosaur fossils ---- or critical to preserve. To know ---- ----. The idea of seeing how the Dinosaur remains are preserved and the educational opportunities. Very important to preserve.  The natural history and cultural history of our Nation.  Wonderful to be able to experience in person! Amazing Dinosaur display. Lots of unique history. Preservation of history.  ---- preserves National pride and identity. Studying Dino! Dinosaurs ---- ----. To show a part of creation and what went on, it is a part of us. Friendly solicitation. Diinosaur bones bar none. Educational for all ages. This park offers a fantastic look at pre-historic North America-highly significant-educational. Geol, native, dinosaurs! Because of ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- that they ---- ---- ----. Geologic history education. History, geological significance, tourism, etc. Amazing dinosaur history as well as geography, views and petrogriphs. Very important for all US and non US visitors fantastic! To preserve ancient history and to educate people to appreciate it. World history. Education; connect with history. History of the dinosaur discovery. Great dino bones display. Shows others outside the area things and info they might not encounter otherwise. Very. Amazing. Fossils, ancient history. History.  Longevity. Everything about park, but fossils alone are outstanding. Pass on to future generations. Very high. Learning about the dinosaur was awesome and educational. The park is significant because it's one of the few places left with intact dinosaur bones. History. You can see the dinosaur bones which is significant for the history of this area. It's a part of our nation's history. It's a monument to the majesty of a lost age and the creatures that ruled it, that deserves appreciation. Our history. To preserve history. Preservation of significant earth history for the world, not just USA. The history of what came before us. Rivers, geology. Education. The ability to see the bone intact in the rock. Beauty, history. I presents an unique opportunity for those interested in dinosaurs-children of ALL ages! Learning, great family event, uniqueness, shade.  Thank you. Learning center. Bringing history to the people esp children. It's great to be able to see real dinosaur bones in city. This park gives people an experience of a lifetime. History of the landscape. Natural history is important. Great! History. Preserving history, teaching with hands on. Very historical. To show us how we were formed on this earth.  Simply amazing.  Being from the East-it is awesome. Geological history. The history of our world today and how it developed. Keep exhibit intact for all the come. The beauty of the canyons and the discovery and significance of the fossils. Both the scenery/geology around the river and the amazing quarry/fossil are unique and incredible. History and science combined. Preservation of history. Thank you so much for your time. Very, very significant!  Everyone should visit here! Dinosaur Wall. Incredible history and a wonderful example of a vision-it's beautiful! Only one that has fossils. Preserving this site for all to see. To expose all visitors to dinosaur history. Fossils-dinosaur and others, petroglyphs, history of settlement. Awesome!! World class archeological site. Apparently this Park interprets and protects some one of a kind complete or almost so specimens. Historical, ecological. History. Cultural and natural preservation also, dinosaurs. Yes, last time I was here was in 1975.  Still one of my favorite. The preservation of our past history-geology ethnic and anthropological-natural setting worth saving. Fossil resources and history of paleontology. History ---- Our heritage for future generations. Teacher about the ----. Great park-educational, informative, must be preserved! Beauty, purity, nature. Great park, glad we came. Dinosaur fossils.  Lots of open country in public hands. Yes. Historical. History. It is significant that the fossils that make up this area's history are kept here, not sent to other areas/museums any longer. It preserves history like no other place.  So important to have public access to this site. Incredible opportunity to match what you read about with actually seeing, touching the past. The history, the scientific knowledge. Good information for those who are to come. Very important. Very important-seeing ---- in site is a rare treat. It is amazing!  So great thanks for preserving. The paleo history of our nation. Trash can't sort well.  It's sorry. History of our land.  Geological significance.  Educational for all ages and all people. History storage and heritage. This park gives you a connection to the dinosaurs that lived so many years ago by seeing and touching their bones.  Awesome! To know the ---- of dinosaur. Center for visitors to learn about early fossil discoveries in the U.S. and early native American petroglyphs. Learning and understanding about the information of the land and seeing the homes of the animals that lived here. The fossils preserved in the exhibit wall are awe-inspiring. Preserve our natural sites for future generations. Understanding geology importance and history. More than national-it's global interest. Very important to America. Dinosaur bones. A view of our heritage. Pre-historic times. Yes, dinosaurs not only important to natural history but global history. A great learning experience. Dinosaurs! For children and young adults to be inspired to make great additions to science. Archeological history, national beauty. Enjoyed my visit. Natural history. Totally different. It's important to preserve the fossils found here to educate the minds and imagination of American's. Highly significant and must be preserved! Worth tax payer money! Historical-anthropological insight. To understand how earth has changed and to preserve history. It protects our history and helps us better understand how everything became today. It helps students and adults to actually see what it looked like to find fossils, very important to a lot of good ---- learn from the past. Educating people. History of dinosaurs. Indoor wall exhibit is amazing-a unique way for fossil lovers to see a huge number of fossils. Yes. History of our state. What was the make up of the country and the climate long ago.  Scientific observation is crucial to our understanding of our planet, surroundings and ourselves. Historical heritage for our people natural beauty. Dinosaurs, ---- mountain gorge. To learn about the geological past. Preservation of historical artifacts-both Dinosaur bones and human rock art. Rare collection of preserved history. A wonderful place to experience dinosaur fossils as they are actually found. The dinosaur fossils which have been preserved and protected tell a story of geological history which many people are unaware. To protect and make available an important part of earth's history. It's incredible collection of Dinosaur Specimens in place. Preservation of beauty and fossil significance."
79,El Malpais NM,ELMA,"That the white man can take anything he wants. Open space, vistas, clean air, habitat, volcanic landscapes, untrammeled natural beauty. Interpretation of geologically recent volcanic terrains. Its significance is not just cultural (attaching the culture centered at Chaco Canyon), but also ---- are tying us to the landscape itself. Natural beauty. It is not obvious other than it is a large land shield. Beautiful and unique. Historic, land formations. The visitor's center is impressive with outstanding help and suggestions provided. Geologic, native history, natural history. To keep the original appearance of nature. Protection of, and education about, a significant geologic resource. Haven't been in the park yet but looking forward to my visit with info Andrew gave. Very significant due to examples of  volcanic and geologic history and types. Lava flows----- been elsewhere. To protect lands of geologic and cultural significance. Geological history Isolated, beautiful, interesting. The historic Zuni-Arizona trade route and the geologic uniqueness. Documenting the varied geologic history of this area. Very interesting. Bring nature and history to people and preserving it. Unique geologic and ecological features and strong cultural histories. Native history and unique geology/Southwest area. Showing the links between culture and landscape/scenery. Historical, lava fields, scenic. Geological wonder as well as cultural preservation. Continue sharing the culture and heritage of the land the Park is in. Geological formations. Learning about geology and Native American culture/history.  Preserving historic places and nature beauty for future generations. Beautiful. This area shows the diversity of our Nation that we only read about back East.  Most enlightening! Geological history of the formation of our lands.  Hands on educational opportunity. Geology. It's beautiful history. Its connection with Native American culture. Preserves natural beauty. To preserve large areas for the examination of volcanic sites.  The Park provides a great opportunity to explore it. I enjoy and the employees are very kind and God's nature is awesome. Keep natural wonders preserved. Lava Tubes and Natural Wildlife. Opportunities to see volcanic landscapes that are rare. Preservation. Save Indian population and property.  Don't let President cut fund. The promotion of the beauty of this State. There is cultural significance ---- ---- ---- trail.  There is geologic significance in the ---- ----.  Natural history- ----, etc. Historical. Very important. Thank you. All information of caves and history is impressive. God's art work is here and every where in this world. Native American influence. Unique geology. NM Geology. It's beauty. Unique geology and incredible stories of resilient communities WAY long ago and positive conservation efforts today? Cool lava features. The Park needed as a service to the people and town that surrounds it, and to let others enjoy the natural beauty of the area. Recent scenic activity exposure. Preserves and allows access to a rare natural environment:  the ancient lava flows. It shows us the unknown. To preserve and showcase the environment. To know and understand our environment. Lava!  Never seen it like that. Geologic. This park has significance for the geological and native American sites.  The caves were fantastic. Education of national treasures! Historical and cultural. To educate others about lava. Very important for its geologic value. Understanding the geologic, native American aspects of the area. Very significant. Nature at its best. For travelers to learn about the geography, history, and early settlers and military personnel that passed through this part of the US. Natural human history beauty. The natural occurrence of the land. Beautiful news. For recreation! Historical. Historical/Natural history of our country. History preserved. The variety of terrain and wildlife is unique to the USA, its very useful and educational area. Yes. Maintain a portion of the natural state of the area. Geologic features, native history/culture, recreation opportunities, science/research opportunities, wildlife habitat. Protecting the Lava Fields and recreational opportunities of exploring Lava Tubes, learning about bats and hiking. It's a great way to learn the history of the area, old volcanoes, and New Mexico."
80,Fort Necessity NB,FONE,"Historic experience for George Washington as a young man. It's essential!  I brought my children so we could learn more about G. Washington BEFORE the Revolutionary War, and boy did we.  Excellent site! The fact that George Washington began his career in the area and the French and Indian War had its beginnings here.  The park relays the history very well. Start of the French and Indian War, involving our first president (to be). Teach about Washington's role in the French and Indian war. This park is part of our nation's history.  Without this site, we would lose much. It made George Washington into the general he was during the Revolutionary War. It represents a nation's push into the unknown. George Washington's first loss and possibly learning experience for later victory over British. The beginning of the French and Indian War. Its connection with George Washington's early (pre-Presidential) career. It was pivotal in the founding of our nation. Shows early days of Washington's early career. It is the beginning of G. Washington career!  Teach 10 grade history   in Texas as we basically start here!  To be able to visit in person was priceless! Learning about G. Washington, the ---- Am War and our Country's history and the beginning of Rt.40. This is a story that is not talked about in history. History of 7 years Wars and first government funded national road. George Washington battle field and history of our country. Fort Necessity Battle Site of one of the Battles that lead up to the Revolutionary War. Washington's first feat in 7 year ----. Early Colonial History. This Park helped me to understand why the revolutionary War happened, and why it happened when it happened. This is the start of our Country.  A small battle, not well-known but of important National significance. Information about history less known to most of us. Opening battle site for the French and Indian War. The Battle with George Washington during the French and Indian War. This was the skirmish that started the ultimate trail to independence. Education. Historical perspective and heritage preservation. As the ---- valleys in the French and Indian War, these locations are an intrinsic part of American history. Early movement West and conflicts. Gave me previously unknown knowledge re:  ---- ---- and history of Washington's early leadership. It helps tell the history of this area as it relates to our Country. One of George Washington's activities who went on to be the leader of the Revolution. Opening ---- of 7 Year War, one of Washington's first commands. This venue was the cabalist for the start of American Independence. Understand how Washington got his start and became a leader. Yes. It's very important to keep this Park to let every one know of its history. All local events of ultimate National and International importance should be commemorated. Battle of French and Indian War.  Battle loss of George Washington. Began French Indian War. Founding Father G. Washington significant portion of his life.  Native American Heritage is also important to this location. French-Indian War, America's first history. French-Indian War. George Washington had his only loss here.  He also owed land here.  As well as assisting in the first National Turn Pike. Great to bring kids to show history at its finest.  Get them away from the books and show them first hand. History of Arenasto Wars and peoples that lived here. History. It shows a different story of George Washington then we usually hear. Its relation to Washington's career and the Revolution. Role of G. Washington and frame work of American Revolution. To preserve history. We need to remember these early events in our history. Pre-American ----. It explained why the French and Indian War started. Explains the role Ft. Necessity played in setting off the French Indian War and eventually the Revolutionary War.  Also explains significance of National Rd. The first ---- of westward expansion, set into motion a series of events that severely impacted native and European civilization. Excellent to understanding origins of the French and Indian War.  Braddock campaign and terrain at Fort N. G. Washington's career/experience used ---- frontier development. General cultural/historical knowledge. It is a major historical area and is the starting point of the French and Indian War and George Washington's cover as a soldier. Learning about Geo. Washington. Very signi in the establishment of our Union!  (Pre-Revolution). Start on French and Indian War; what singled Revolutionary War, National Road. French and Indian War and National Road (Rt 40). Get to learn about our history first hand. Tremendous historical value. Second skirmish of the Seven Years War.  Washington was there and led the forces.  Do we know where Washington attacked that led to this battle, and is there anything to see at that site? Early formation years.  To be honest, this place has become a favorite!  Why are there not many related to French Indian more? The first major event in the military career of George Washington-the French and Indian War. History of French/Indian war. It is a visual and interesting account of our American history! This was George Washington's first battle.  I learned a lot about the French-Indian War and the National Highway.  Important heritage! Very beginning of our national identity. Remembering the ---- of the French and Indian War. George Washington's development through battle and recognition of him. Start of French and Indian War. Start to the French and Indian War; trail/road westward. It was the location of George Washington's first battle. If things went the other way America might not have been established. I have read/studied the history.  It was marvelous to actually walk it, and view it up close. Britain eliminated the French on North America.  Key point in developing the colonies leading to our independence. Preserving historic structures (home/hotel building) educating youth on battles fought near home. Shows American's movement West and its relation to native people; and how an early leader (Washington) began his career. It necessity is vital and enduring to your understanding of the war that made America-the French and Indian War, glad a relative there (family ----) but he deserted! Beginning of French/Indian War. George Washington first battle as Commander-started French/Indian War.  Experience for G. Washington.  National road. George Washington's first battle and only surrender.  The search and struggle for acquiring Western lands was incredibly important for the future USA. Washington wasn't always the hero he has been thought to be. Start of the French and Indian war. The burial ground. Highly significant. Nation building Washington education. I like it because of the history and the sight seeing. It's amazing I like the displays. The development and advancement of a young nation. Important! Start of French and Indian War. The whole story of America ---- drive, and future vehicles and ---- HERE! This is by far an extremely important ----. History, national roads and highways, development of colonization and spread of civilization ----. Start of our nation and building the future. History and teaching. The story of three cultures (Indian, French and British) coming into conflict in Ohio River Valley.  Start of French and Indian War. It ---- to the ---- of those at Fort ----. Learning history. George Washington first loss; establishment of National highway; relationship to French-Indian War. ---- store for as ----. French and Indian War explanation. It educates people regarding the very beginning of our country. I grew up in IN and studied about French and Indian War-it was ---- videos made it real. Knowledge of pre-revolutionary American history. Starting French and Indian War-American Revolution. Beginning of French and Indian War. Educating about the French and Indian War specifically fort necessity. George Washington 1st battle. Good stuff-knowledgeable ---- I am a member of the U.S. army and to ---- to a place where history unfolded I feel it's part of my duty. It is the beginning of the prelude to the American Revolution.  My wife and I did not know that before visiting the park. The region contributed much to our nation and understanding the history helps us know who we are. The start of Rt. 40 and to teach people about the war. Young G. Washington. Wonderful improvement of Fort necessity! So important for Americans to understand their history! Landmark in Washington's life and military ----.  ---- of F and I War, which paved way for American Revolution. Important part of how America was formed. History of the early career of our first president. From necessity beginning of many wars and cessation from Brian.  Thank you. Showing that the course of history was determined by a small skirmish involving a young George Washington. It outlines an important battle that ---- a young founding father. Building the National road, opening up the west via road access. Good for community history and learn. The future education of Geo. Washington. Ties together my understanding of Wash. the man, and his travels through NJ. George Washington beginning of leadership development.  Basis of French and Indian war. Very enlightening on the French/Indian war which one does not get much exposure to other wise. Very interesting information about George W. and national highway-I didn't know about this-George W. beginnings. Washington's early career, including what he learned about war fare to prepare him for further endeavors. Early years development of George Washington.  Start of French and Indian War. Was the center of the past activities. Preserving history is important. First surrender in George Washington's career, start of French and Indian War. The park displayed/taught the early history of George Washington and the French and Indian war. It was where the young Lt. Washington started learning the art of war. Presents a ---- of history often overlooked. This small fort represented the larger aspirations of the British to gain control of the Ohio River Valley and subsequently the NA continent. Teaches history! Learned so much more about 1st President Washington.  Also did not know about the 1st Federally funded road. I learned about the role of the half king in the battle of Fort necessity. The significance of this park is it's historical value as the first battle of the French and Indian war. Provides a record of events that led to this area being controlled by the British rather than the French. French and Indian War and ---- Washington's early career are fascinating subjects and important for future generations to see and experience. The massive amount of info about George Washington never taught to me in school, I was truly amazed!  Wow! Yes very. It preserves the site of a young George Washington.  It is also the site of an event that shaped the early balance of power in colonial America."
81,Weir Farm NHS,WEFA,"It supports art and nature. The history of the arts in this country. It as a pleasure ---- ----.  Kept the ---- ----. A place to get away from the hectic pace of life around NYC. Beautiful of the outdoors and the ability of Art to convey that. American Art. The American Artist Home and Workshop.  Great fun to visit, very peaceful. The history of American artists and Art is of great significance to the Nation.  We need more exposure to it. Preservation of art heritage. Highlighting the importance of American art to our culture and the worlds.  Excellent use of tax money. Preserving open space and making it accessible, educating all regarding the important American artists of this era. Nation's connection to art and art history, lovely pastoral walk in Connecticut/New England.  Beautiful little spot. The only national park dedicated to american painting. To educate the younger generations on the history and culture of the region at the time the country was started. Interpreting the natural themes of our nation's heritage. It is/was the ""home"" of impressionist art in the U.S.  It continues to inspire and support art through setting and programs. J. Alden Weir played a significant role in American art. Celebrate our cultural/artistic history. Arts! Art heritage preservation. Historically the house and grounds.  Artwork. Art!  Natural beauty!  Quiet enjoyment! Showcase way of life. Impressionist art park in my home state of CT with exceptional grounds. Important painter. Great American Artist and saving the beauty of this natural setting. Artistic heritage as it relates to nature. American Impressionistic Artists. Snapshot of CT in 1870's-ish.  Natural state of area.  Historical art, American Impressionist. A very well preserved ---- American culture whose mere existence is ---- to the preservation of our culture and ----. History of Art in the USA. It's a great representation of what inspires American landscape artists. Preserving the art legacy.  Preserving nature for future generations. Captures the Artist's conception of nature and the people of the time. The fact that Weir Farm is one of the only artist-related National Parks.  It's a unique, diverse landscape with many varsities of trees. Celebrating Artists. It's historical which makes it very interesting and educational. An essential symbol of American landscape, art history, and culture. Nat Parks are very significant to keeping our heritage alive-the more the better. I love that NPS preserves, protects and ---- those smaller cultural sites. If it's NPS, you can count in quality. Preservation of a unique and rich cultural heritage in an environment of unspoiled beauty. Weir's contribution to and leadership of the American Impressionist movement a multi-generational artist family and the current artist in residence program.  The philosophy that beauty is all around us. Emphasize on arts-a national treasure. The conjunction of nature with art makes it unique.  It gives the visitors an opportunity to learn much about the 2 artists, the art colony and the ---- and sculpture. American art development. Art history; CT history; sociopolitical change in this area. Outstanding cultural/artistic/historic educational opportunity. Very significant wonderfully preserved and important source of inspiration; continue ----. Art and nature-good combo. To encourage appreciation of CT beauty. Closing the gap between nature and art. Connection of art, history and ----, great tour, so accommodating. Creating art in nature. Great history of American painting. How the arts and nature coincide and are embellished. It highlights American art and its national and regional significance. One of few recognizing Amer. art! The connection with nature, art, and literature. The importance of art in our society. To learn about American Artist and nature. The history and significance of Weir. It presents a history of Fairfield County and the period between Civil War and World War I.  Natural environment seemed to have been preserved. A retreat from the CT Chaos. Historical preservation. There is a deep connection between the Weir family and American history and culture.  I want to bring classes here. To give artists a place to create. Exhibit and recounting of American Art Period Circa 1880's-1960's. Lovely and interesting. History, art. Display and offerings of programs significant to American art. It gives visitors a glimpse into the life, work environment and inspiration of one of the great American Impressionist painters. Spotlight the contributions of artists to our nation. National parks ---- this park very important as begins to the next ---- of young people!  Preserving natural/vegetation. The importance of nature in inspiring fine art. So great that it has art history connections! Dedication to the arts. Enlightenment about American impressionism. I have been here before and told everyone how great it is.  I love that you freely offers art supplies. This is a unique national park.  The personnel are intelligent, warm, and authoritative. Wonderful art history ranger park. Beautiful landscape and out in our own back yard. ART. The art. Art and American landscape. Very good. Art colony-beautiful rock walls! Art history! Artistic and historic. Important to honor artists! Art history. Learning about the artist and his influence on other artists. Artistic heritage. It captures a moment in history and celebrates the intersection of nature and art. Excellent example of artist studio, early 20th century. American artwork. The only one that has an art emphasis. We are very impressed on how well the park has been preserved. Shows development of America's Impressionism. Gives great opportunities to continue history. Great chance to visit history. Great to have a National Park in CT. Very important to preserve our nation's art sources. This site recognizes the importance of ---- to the Amer. Impressionist Art movement.  Wish the NPS would consider the Florera Griswald House as well. This park is a valuable piece of history that crosses all generations.  The land, buildings and variety of trails are wonderful. Preserve the spaces and home of ---- national artists and ---- attention to the relationship between ---- nature. Federal money should go to more important things that have actual historical significance. Federal money should go to more important things that have historical significance. Birthplace of many American artist. It is a unique park and a national ---- The enthusiasm of the staff is part of the ----. Weir farm provides a wonderful look into the history of the arts. Madeline was very knowledgeable and kind. Showed studios of ---- artist in original setting. The importance of preservation and legacy as well as commitment to the arts. Preservation of an artist farm inspiration to paint/sketch. Artistic beauty and history.  American Impressionism. Cultural education. American Impressionism beginnings. Educate the public about the significance of American artists of the era. Promotion of need for continuing to funds in America. Historic art work in it's original setting. The history of art. Artistic influence on American impressionism. Excellent! It commemorated the American impression Sebol period; the beauty of New England's landscape and our marvelous rock walls.  ---- to ---- ---- ----. History. Needs signs for finding place. Very, very important! Only park dedicated to American art. American art history. Helped to identify to me a sample of culture of the Ridgefield Conn. community.  Much enjoyed by me. It allows visitors to experience a natural environment that has inspired artists for generations. Development of art's culture; human relationship to nature; America in global intellectual currents. Educational. Its beauty and information about art/artists in 19-20th centuries. Only park dedicated to an artist. The unique nature of which art is appreciated here at the park. Art history. Art-Impressionism education. Art history-this was a wonderful way to learn about American art. Beauty, peace, friendly park rangers.  Alan, Emily, Amanda. Celebrating a very important American cultural development-J. Alden Weir, his friends and his art. At, beauty and nature. Wonderful, historical info. Art history and science. Beautiful example of a ---- American was. Highlights the rise of Americans in the arts, establishing U.S. on the world scene in importance. Significance lies in the role the artist played in American Impressionist movement. Weir Farm is a place where visitors can connect with the environment, each other, and the past, and appreciate nature through art. Only park about artists. It is part of our national art history and brings it to life. An important American paint lived and worked here-also connection to Stanford White. Gives an overview of one of the founders of American Impressionism; offers a chance to learn about American culture of the times. Preserves our culture. Ties nature, art and history. ART. It was amazing we need more artist sites! Unusual art history connection. The arts. It showed the evolution of an American artist who initially hated impressions to his love for it. History, famous artists who worked in different, varied media. Supports impressionist painting. Art and nature. Getting outside and seeing what the artist lived here saw and loved also.  (My age is 14.  My brother is 12). The artist and this beautiful place that inspired their paintings."
82,Point Reyes NS,PORE,"Evidence of earth and plates movement, wildlife habitat, ranching history, protection of the F.R.N.S. for public use. The beautiful nature and the variety of animals. It preserves a beautiful landscape and supports a plehtora of flora and fauna. A treasure in every sense of word. The beauty of the nature, the many animals living ---- the ecosystem as ----. This park preserves ---- would probably otherwise be ----. This park provides interesting educational exhibits on natural and historical aspects of Marin County, CA. The Lighthouse. I don't know much about the history but I love that it is a massive, beautiful park that my family has enjoyed for decades. A valuable asset. Preserve sea shore. A unique and beautiful coastal environment easily accessed by city dwellers. Lighthouse walk was fun. A view of natural and cultural heritage along scenic and rugged ---- ----, home to multiple ecosystems and rare life! Range of lighthouses provide a ""linked"" maritime history. Preserving all aspects of nature. Retaining a natural seashore. Natural habitat, protection for unique animal species, coastal environment/protection. Lighthouse, creamery, conservation. Needed more than ever with population density growing.  Very healing. Historical and marine life education.  I also appreciate the exhibit's message regarding climate change. Enjoyment of nature.  Significance of native peoples.  Safe environment of the animals and environment in the area. Preservation of what is left in our environment due to climate change and educating people that climate change is real. Maritime history, geography and weather. Important cultural landmark. The only one still fully together in the U.S.. The history of the lighthouse is important to U.S. and California commerce.  Also, it's a great habitat for sea life. Wildlife, views. To be able to walk and camp in nature close to an urban center. Natural habitat. 1. Geology and environment and community. Natural beauty. Preserving the wild. Unspoiled scenic beauty. Keeping the sea area; protecting an historical site. History, nature, conservation, preservation, safety, family, animal migration. It is almost pristine and so close to a highly populated area. This park covers a wide variety of natural resources and historical items.  I am so glad that we came! Undeveloped seashore with a variety of terrain. We visit all the parks in the western states. Wonderful!  I love bringing my son here to show him the beauty of his patronage and what he should work to preserve and protect. The only one working still up in the original location. Interesting history.  Fun to visit. The lighthouse that saved so many ships from danger. Gorgeous shoreline, varied terrain, close to Urban areas and public and private use all around and in the park. Beauty, ecological significance, educational. Education. Exposure to nature beauty. Carbon sink. Coastline safety. It's one of the most beautiful parks I've been too and the history. For years it has serviced them and protected seasons wildlife as well as informed visitors of the history and eco systems here. Thank you for the parks! Learning about effects of earthquakes, early California inhabitants, lighthouses/sea trade. Unspoiled coastline. Signs should be ---- delay in mowing trail due to nesting birds, ---- should have regular hikes. Beautiful natural resource easily accessible from major metropolitan area. Short drive from bay area wonderful variety of natural experience and it's beautiful! Its beauty.  Protection of the ----.  The diversity of its ecosystem.  Protection of habitat. The park protects very valuable ecosystems while allowing people to appreciate them at the same time.  It features the geologically prominent San Andreas fault. The fact that the park is so close to a major city, and easy to visit. Protection of the seashore including the amazing animals/mammals that make up this beautiful environment. I think it's a gem.  So many beautiful trails.  Sea side is spectacular. The utter beauty!  We enjoyed the hiking that we did. It was a place for maritime travel and for the emergency rescue team that was there. The lighthouse closed for over two hours for the ranger's lunch.  Fortunately, we were not affected, but it did not seem fair to people arriving at that time. Very special place along coast above SF.  My wife and I hiked Bear Valley-Sky loop.  Trails great shape! Scenery, plants, wildlife, etc..  It's an amazing park! The incredible beauty of the geography; the historical significance of the lighthouse system and fascinating technology of lighthouse. Wildlife, maritime. Every park has value for our country and culture.  I don't believe we would have this type of vision today. This ---- guided the ships before GPS. Preserving the habitat, protecting wildlife, ensuring that ALL citizens have access to the natural beauty of our country, not just the wealthy. Learning about history. President Kennedy's legacy! Preserving advise pacific habitat for everyone to enjoy! Placard outside visitors center should be in his memory. How do you narrow it down to three lines? This park has great significance to the history of America's and the West's ----. To preserve natural habitats and allow visitors to experience them. Natural places need to be preserved. The significance is the attempt to aid navigation in an almost unavailable region."
83,Gila Cliff Dwellings NM,GICL,"The things that were present there unravels the culture, traditions and the way of living of people of that time. The preservation of ancient native culture is very important.  The knowledge gained can only help us understand America. History and knowledge of our past. Preserving remains of ancient cultures. Very historical. Preserving the beauty and history of the area. The natural scenery and environment and the cliff dwellings. Huge significance, it is a TREASURE. Very important. Only Mogollon cultural site in the country. Very important. Good. As good as Mesa Verde. History of our nation. History/life ways of those living in the cliff dwellings. Cultural structures so diverse in a relatively small area. The dwellings are well preserved and very informative. Value of native Americans and nature.  (Sometimes inconsistent), Advice: more cohesive info, all employees on same page same info. Very. History. Our aboriginal cultural history and these peoples connection to their natural environment. Never lose your heritage. Teaches good history. History of New Mexico and it's people's contributions. It preserves the remains of a people who are part of our history. To save this treasure. Very significant, I love knowing these wild places remain.  That is why I live in Silver City. How people lived in the old ages and survived. To learn about the history of the land and the need to preserve. How humans adapted to the environment. It's significance to the history of indigenous people.  Also just being awesome! Learning the history of our land and those who lived here before us. Origins of the area. Preserves our ancient culture. Shows how Native Americans lived. The Indian dwelling and nation history and it's people that protect the natural ----. Very good. Another preserved piece of our past. Amazing history that people need to learn about!  It is a part of our nation's history. Archeological significance. Beautiful history. Because of the history. Cultural heritage. History and adaptation. History of NM and it's early inhabitants. It is a piece of history that tells a story of how people advance and progress no matter how little of tools were available.  Just amazing! It's history. Keep people in touch with nature and relay the importance of keeping the areas available to everyone. NA Indian ruins and wilderness. Native American cliff dwellers. Native American culture. Preserving the past for our future generations. The national parks are rightfully protected and belong to all of us.  Aren't we privileged and lucky? To learn about the dwellings. To preserve history and allow people to experience local history first hand. Very good. History. Preserving history and sharing it to people is very important. Historical importance of preservation. Keep our history and lands pristine for future generations. We need to appreciate the prehistoric cultures of North America. It symbolizes and highlights the preserve of Native Americans in the past and into the 21st century. I particularly enjoyed going into the dwellings and ""filling"" what I was like along time ago. The preservation of prehistoric living quarters. National history. Enjoyed very much. Dwellings and hot springs. Saving history. Tradition, culture, natural beauty. History. History of Native American culture. Rich cultural history that will be lost if not saved. The dwellings provide a tangible culture to the people of this land, then without the park wouldn't even be known. History of the land and caves. Native American culture. North American pre-history is important. It preserves the history of progression of civilization. Shows history of Native Americans. Heritage of the native Americans. Excellent learning opportunity. Preserving the natural beauty of the Gila and also to preserve and educate the structures and cultures of the past. Historic value. Being able to see the dwelling places of historic nations before our time. Cultural/architectural insight-building practices of ancient peoples. It is humbling to see and imagine the communities that came before us. Very important.  Would not want to lose this valuable American history. World history.  Heritage. Amazing, great staff, great time. Excellent. Historical. History, diversity, culture. I came here as a kid and it's still takes my breath away.  Thank you for protecting it so that my children can enjoy it. It's a great park (Federal) that all amenities need to come and experience. Peace. Preserve ancient ruins. Seeing the way Indians lived and the intelligence they had to create the dwellings. The history that lies at this park is amazing.  Beautiful history and park. History at its best. A beautiful example of how simple and respectful the original stewards were. Absolutely, MORE FUNDING should be invested!! For research and recreation! Lots more to learn about. It is part of our historical and natural heritage. Very important. Perspective. Great historical site. So wonderful that we can ---- dwellings. Saving GOD'S country/history. Preservation. History. Learning more of Native American culture. I believe these sites must be preserved at all costs.  I would hope my grandkids would have the chance to see these sites. Historic information. Connect back to our history. Extremely educational. Historical site. Important to know about ancient culture and people that lived here hundreds of years ago. Preserving history and nature. Very much so.  One of the first inhab.. Great part of NM history. It's history, our American history. Go teach. Keeps the past meaningful and not forgotten. Learning about the history of our nation is always important. Learning about the history of this area. Native history-fascinating! The historical significance of past civilizations and how they lived. The park holds valuable history for Native culture. The native homes and the nature views. Shows how native Americans lived 700+ years ago. Educate and appreciate other culture. Shows us history of country and people who came before us. Proof of habitation indigenous people hundreds of years ago is so important. The beauty and preservation is amazing. It is unique, should be protected. This helps people understand how people in this area lived before Settlers and Conquistadors came. The preservation of Native American history. History. History. Cultural significance and a great experience with beautiful news. History of the ----. A piece of ancient history one can actually go inside! Nature and learning about natures past history. Native Historical Value. Preserving the structures of those before us and providing the opportunity to learn about them. Understanding of the pre-history cultures. History-fifth trip to this site. I feel very fortunate to be able to visit this Park and will return soon with  my family. To keep the culture of the people's alive. History, culture and ethnic background. Extraordinarily significant. Heritage. Native American Heritage. As our heritage gets lost in politics, it's wonderful to show children what it was like. Fascinating to see the Dwellings up close and personal.  Real perspective! Great historical value. Important part of the New Mexico Heritage. Preserve Ancient Sacred Sites. Preserves an often over looked piece of American history. Dwellings of indigenous people beautifully preserved. Preservation and cultural education. Please more learning about culture/people development/interaction. Protecting cultural heritage for future generations to experience and learn about past cultures. Very significant-amazing cultural and natural importance. Outstanding-cannot put a monetary value on the importance of preservation. It is a cultural and national treasure-a natural museum. The cave. North American prehistory is understudied this and other ---- sites are critical. History. Read about this in 4th grade 54 years ago, always wanted to come. Thank you. History. Historical and archaeology. Cultural experience. Learning about our history. Encouraging stewardship building careers. To preserve and protect history. History needs to be preserved for future generations, this does it well. Educational and cultural historical preservation. History and appreciation of the original Americans-their amazing lives and history. The history! Teaching our generations how the natives lived. So great!! It' wonderful. Helps to understand how successive cultures push one another off the land. Preserving heritage and culture of ancestors. Important history lesson. History. A history and nature. Preserving the history architecture and culture of the indigenous. Was awesome!! American history, culture, geograph, geology, survival. Cultural heritage, relationship between open spaces and mental health; wilderness in the face of urbanization. Great historical value. History and natural beauty. Preservation of an historical site. Shows how beautiful our country is. Thank you for keeping this beautiful. The 800 year old cliff dwellings and pictograph are fantastic. Views and foliage great. American heritage-American history. Awesome. Hard to say in a few words but it seems culturally and ecologically imperative to protect places like this. Historical value, wilderness education, children learn to care for nature. Historical, diversity flora and fauna. It a part of history and shows how people lived way back when. It looks beautiful. Preservation of early American heritage. Preserving the beauty of nature for all to enjoy. The cave dwellings. The cave dwellings. This park is preserving the natural beauty of our nation for generations to see. To learn about our ancestors who came before the Europeans. To learn about our ancestors. Valuable, beautiful ---- legacy. Preservation of historical site. It is a beautiful and significant part of history and it is important for all generations to be informed about the past and to preserve it's beauty. Preservation and education of American Indian history. The history of the American southwest is an integral part of the history of N. America and should be preserved. Human history and it's intersection with geology! It preserves history. Significant history. To keep our heritage alive. The Cliff Dwelling. This is amazing. Beautiful scenery and human history. Our history and ----. Preserve history for all generations. A look back at history, the struggles and sacrifices people of the past made, is vital for the appreciation and continued improvement of people today. Natural history of indigenous people. Preserving the area for the future people to enjoy. Very good.  Keep up the good work. Very high, ---- and special place.  Friendly personnel. Understanding our past and appreciation our future! Interpretation of different cultures. Historical and cultural significance to the native people who lived here. Cultural heritage. History-great scenery. Our heritage as a whole peoples-history is important. Preserving history.  Once gone it's gone. Gives people an historical perspective for ancient history! This park, as an active duty military person, is the nation in my opinion.  Very sacred. Preservation of cultural and historical significance. Historical as well as nature. Never been able to walk into a cliff dwelling, it was a very unique experience. It's historical for history. Status quo. Beautiful park with lots of history of the native American. Great! Life itself. History of Indians coming through and living in caves for 30 yrs.  Where they come from-where they went mystery. It needs to be preserved. Very significant as it relates to indigenous people of N.M. First nation people deserve all significant recognition. History of the area is portrayed. Native American history. Natural history of the nation. Cultural relevance. History. Preserve the southwest portion of New Mexico, very different from east/north.  Culture. Very significant. Very significant. Indian history. It's just so beautiful. Very. Passing on the nations resources. Change for large bill would be nice. History of the tribes and people that inhabited the area hundreds of years ago. History. Human history, natural beauty. Yes! Very good cultural and historical significance. The significance of the park was to show the historical experience of the past individuals. Very historical. Remembering history. Glad it's saved and protected. Preserving an ""ancient"" native American cultural site. Education. First nat'l park kudos to also hopefully younger ---- will get off their phones long enough to enjoy. History of the natives of America. Show how are ancestors lived. Extremely historically relevant!  Keeping sites like this kept up in culturally important to our history! How long it has been in existence and still going for generations to come. I love it. It's historical preservation of ancient dwellings. Our nations history, provides a greater understanding of the Magohou nation and it's cultures. Preservation. Preserving an ancient native culture. The significance of the park goes beyond national this is important to humanity.  All very well represented.  Overall very pleased! To preserve it's history so other people can see it. Urgently important. Great look into the past to know how our brother/sisters lived.  Very good. History and recreation and nature. Historical. History. We love it! The amazing and beautiful history!  Also the knowledge of the guides. History of families that thrived here."
84,Thaddeus Kosciuszko NMem,THKO,"The legacy and impact of Kosciliszko on Americans and the Polish people. Kosciuszko came from Poland to help US fight for freedom and free the slaves. History. Securing our independence from the British. Introduction to an important historic figure most people are unfamiliar with. It's important to honor Mr. Kosciuszko's contributions to our nation's history. It highlights a lesser known area of the American Revolution. I like that this site was about a Polish man who was not from the US or England.  I like seeing stories that celebrate our diverse history.  Plus he was an abolitionist and I love to see that. Yes.  I had never heard of Mr. Kosciuszko before, but was impressed with his contributions to the fight for independence. As a member of the military learning about his war contributions. I think it is important to show case different ethnicities.  This guy was from Poland, which was interesting. This park taught us about a significant person during the Revolutionary War who we didn't know about before. Honors Kosciuszko and his assistance to USA during revolution. He helped our armies win the American revolution. Recognize very military strategist from revolutionary war. To put pressure on the Soviet Union during the Cold War. Kosciuszko's contribution ----  ---- was often goes untold in history ----.  I appreciated leaning ----  ----. This Park is significant as an exhibition of the life of a prominent figure in the early history our our Nation.  Of note is the sensitive treatment of the inhabitants at a Polish National. Remembering an American ----. Important to the  history and freedom of our Nation. 0 It displays American history. Thadeus Kosciusleo was very important in the Revolution, Washington needed competent military engineers. A founding ""uncle"" to our country.  It displays the interdependence needed for independence. Learning about history and preserving memory. A significant person from the revolutionary war lived here. Thaddeus Kosciuszko was a national hero in the U.S. and abroad for his military actions and career. Commemorating a little known (and foreign ----) hero of the American War for independence. Collaboration with other nations and the importance of freedom from tyranny to all people."
85,Hubbell Trading Post NHS,HUTR,"Historical value to the area re: weaving, farming, community, relations. History of Navajo peoples. Keeps history alive and depicts the value of the Navajo nation. A reminder of our --- crossing of cultural interactions. It helps you understand the role of the white man on Indian land and his role in trade. This trading post benefited the entire region and ---- Hubball was a cultural ---- that span two worlds in early US history. History of in-justice by US gov towards native Americans. Illustrates the history of trading posts and their importance in trade with the Indians and Indian culture and art. History of this area needs to be available to people. Maintaining presence of a key factor in settlement of the West and are man's life helping the natives of the region. The heritage ---- importance of trading posts.  Through out the history of the southwest. Native-American heritage.  History-US west. Many people have never seen a trading post.  The Hubble Trading Post perfectly explain how the post worked for the Indians and traders and maintained good relationships. Testimony to fairness of Mr. Hubbell toward Navajo nation and authenticity exhibition of Navajo artifacts. I really enjoyed the history of the Hubbell family. Cultural awareness for all people. Historical significance. Love learning about the history and culture of the Navajo nation. Regional History.  History of Peoples. Revitalization of the Navajo People and bringing together a middleman for cultures and heritage. To learn about the wrongs done to Navajo People-and to learn the history of commerce. Showcases the wonderful, unique culture of the Navajo. History.  Preservation. Provides an insight into history not often learned in American History-particularly Easterners. Great historical value, presented live and excellent employment opportunity for locals-great opportunity for Navajos to shine.... To preserve the showcase the Navajo Culture and show how trade and trust developed. White man existing in Native American land; representing everyone as they survive together with trading. Understanding Navajo Culture-how trade, lodging, travel occurred. Historical Significance of area. My ---- ----. A great chance to learn. History in this part of Native Culture would be lost. Such a rare treat to see an original structure, so well preserved.  A wonderful experience for kids. The Trading Post. To preserve history. Good Native American local information. the blending of the native cultures and white business. A very valuable piece of history. Native American history kept alive. This site was integral in connecting the U.S. and the world to the Navajo through the goods that were traded.  Also, Hubbell is an example of early American pioneering spirit. Very high.  It is a good example of various cultures in the U.S. finally finding common ground. Very interesting-story needs to be told. Important to understanding how people lived and interacted with Native Americans in the 1800s and 1900s. First interaction/cooperation between Navajo and Americans. Culture and history. History of the Navajo and the long walk. Preserve the past.  Most important. Trading post. Very important. Important for generations to learn. Yes, oldest still being used trading post very cool! To learn about the relationship between the races and their desire for peace.  Also how goods were acquired. Native American history. Cultural treasure. Culture and heritage. A chance to learn about an era in history that was a positive influence for Native Americans and the Hubble Family. Cooperation between white and Indians that they could work together. A piece of history still in operation! The past is a major element for the Navajo economy and a link with the American world.  It is important to keep it for next generations to understand Navajo history. History/cultural heritage important blend of cultures during westward expansion, etc. The cultural history demonstrating assimilation and cooperation of diverse cultures is the foundation of this country and must be remembered. Living history of trading post with the Navajo nation. An example of early trading between Native Americans and Europeans. Contemporary and respectful manner these items are sold ----. Significance to how trade/bartering was evolved and still exists! It was great to read the Hubbell story-and know one white man didn't lie to and steal from the Indians. This is a wonderful step back in time.  A snapshot of a family that lived and worked and helped the natives in the area at the time. It teaches the history of the Navajo and the things they suffered, but also shows how people can get along. Learning about different cultures will enrich our lives by brining the beauty of the people together as a nation. History ---- Historical, cultural and recreational.  A little ---- ---- would be ideal especially for families with young children. Great history of the state. Fascinating to learn history about Mr. Hubbell and his relationship to Indians. This park shows the Navajo's/Hopi culture with us while showing Mr. Hubbell's valuable contribution to peaceful relationships with these people. Information public of Navaho history, engagement with western expansion, CLEAR AND COMPELLING connection of past and present. It shows the success of peaceful overtures among people of different heritages.  Also shows a glimpse of what it was like at that time. Link to the past and understanding the culture of our forefathers. An excellent example of there reality of living in the west in the 1880's better than most because you're part of it-not just looking in. Preservation of history and culture. A place where 2 cultures successfully met and interacted.  Navajo trading/trading post history.  Important art center. Preservation of an actual training post. Great trading post history. It exemplifies American moxy, work ethic, and determination to make a life in a place where there was previously nothing. Early American/Navajo history and it's preservation. This park represented both the positive and negative of US gov't involvement with the Navajo.  This park is important to Western history and native American history. History-interaction with local people. This part had family heritage that was significant to our family. Very significant for educating public about reservation period. The heritage of the American Indian culture and its preservation for the future.  Very important!! Shows what Trading Posts were like. It is a beautiful and important piece of the history of the Navajo Res.. It's history as a trading post for Native Americans. Historic value.  Thank you for preserving it. Historical, cultural."
86,Knife River Indian Villages NHS,KNRI,"Learning about Native American history is very important and enjoyed our visit. It's important to understand and preserve the history of this people so we can learn from their ways and honor their place in history. To preserve the past as well as show the young what artifacts looked like from our ancestors. A major part of the history of our country. History of its people, informative impressionable in their use of nature, etc. Introduction to local Indian life. Informs about life before whites in NA. Education regarding Maudan and Hidatsa culture. Represents some thing lost from our Nation's past. Native American history. Importance of the Lewis and Clark Camps of Discovery, and Native American culture. Indian history in ND along the Knife River and a piece of L and C and Sukawea. To help us learn more about the three afflicted tribes and their culture. History of Native Americans and history of contact and its outcomes. Saving the Indian past. The birthplace of Sakakawea and also the importance of Native American culture. Historical/cultural. Preservation of native culture. It preserves part of our historical culture. Provides us with important history of Native Americans. To preserve an American Indian village on the Knife River.  By walking the trail, really got a sense of size and life of village. Archeological significance. Indian culture. Shows a rich tribal history. This area is the trade source for flint for the nation.  The Indians were a great resource for L and C. Shows where Sacagawaea originated from-explains not all Plains N.A. were hunters following the herds. This is where Charbonneau and Sacagawea were living when the Corps of Discovery arrived in the area and set up their Winter Camp!  The local Indians helped them (----) survive the Winter. This park and rangers Jeff and Rich? were excellent. It continues the memory of a people who were vital to Lewis and Clark's success and who might otherwise have been forgotten by the nation. Excellent site for education on the ----cultures. Preserving pre-European culture. Thank you for preserving our historical sites. Native Culture. Preserve Manan/Hidatse history. Very. Early interaction with the Native Americans and their way of life. It reminds me of the past history and what the White man did to the Indians.  Shame. Historical. It's great for overseas visitors to learn about the Native Americans. Native history. Representing the Native American Community that lived here. Study of Mandan along with Lewis and Clark. The significance of our Native peoples can not be emphasized enough.  Knowing their cultures expands our ideas of this land and of relationships Valuable. History. The historical importance. This Park portrays Native American culture as well as part of the Lewis and Clark journey, allowing history not to be forgotten! Very important! Wonderful history of those who have lived before us and lived off the land. Teaches about way of Native Americans. To remember our nation's ---- past.  The importance of Americans Indians is too often ---- but yet we consider their world views our world views of the 21st century. Keeping the tradition and history alive for younger generations. The cultural significance is phenomenal. To preserve and protect cultural resources and artifacts for future generations. Native American History. This park is very near the old site of Deapolis and Sheheke's Village, where a rock possibly bearing ruins is submerged. Native Americans history important for everyone to learn and realize how they lived is important to our country. This park gives you a sight into the life of Native Americans.  Very good exhibits and the sod home.  Native Americans are a huge part of our history. Great education on the tribes originally in the area and a peak inside their homes and way of life.  Ranger Ethan White Calfe was the highlight with his very informative presentation on Bison. To protect our unique resources and pay ---- to our ----/ Increasing ---- of Native Americans and their lifestyle. The importance of understanding the complexity and ancient historic city of ---- society at the Missouri/Knife confluence is key to our sense of humanity as North Americans. Depicts the daily cultural life of Native Americans at the time of American/European exploration of West. History of the American Indian cultural.  Need to keep every one informed. The history of how things used to be done. The Indian Tribes are our Nation's History it was interesting to hear the Hidatsa woman's account of her life here in the movie we watched. Educate on the past and learn from it. Education to all-be thankful for the ones before us. Our Nation History-to educate. Historical value and how they lived. This is where America's greatest explorer met the woman who made world, in part, help to guide them West and ----  horses to cross the Bitternest Mountains. This park gives an excellent overview of the history of the area, the people that lived here and their connection with the rest of the ----. The history and culture of the Native people before colonization. History. History of Sakakawea/Lewis and Clark expedition.  One of a kind preserved village sites. I am an Aussie but found talk so interesting. Continues the history of Hidatsa culture. Cultural. It shows a traditional way of life. Keeping alive the history of all our people. Learning about the history of indigenous people to the area.  Very important to the history of our country. Learning the history of the local Native Americans. Preserving Native American culture and history. The park shares the story of a lost culture and is very important to preserve! The significance of this park is showing how Indians lived and where the guide to Lewis and Clark came from. To respect and understand the people here at the time. Connection to L and C and Native history. Historic significance of the people here and their interaction with Lewis and Clark. Learn from history of our nation. Preservation of Native American history. Sharing and preserving the native Indians that lived here. The history of the Three Affiliated Tribes. Earth lodge. Connection to hundreds of years of history.  Thank you to Jeff who is quite sensitive and knowledgeable! Maintains history of native American culture. Education and preserving native American culture. Excellent. History and also significance to the area.  Nice for preservation purposes and no development. History of Hidatsu and Mandan nations scenic beauty. History of local Native Americans. Maintaining awareness of Native Americans, their lives and culture. Education. Enriches our learning and understanding of the past. Preserves and educates about Native American history. Preservation and history of the area and settlements along the river.  Very interesting.  Happy to see this reconstruction. Understanding the life and culture of the plains Indians.  Also, the geology and history of the area. Extraordinary-the L and C expedition was key to the development of the country and the assistance of the Mandans was key to their expedition. It shares the history of our nation's people, prior to the arrival of explorers and/or immigrants. Learning about native American culture and history. Native American history. Visit of Lewis and Clark and Indian culture going back decades! History of Indian settlements in the area. Living quarters for Native Americans in 1800s. Preserving local heritage. Significant historic and cultural site/familiar historic events take on deeper meaning and improves cultural understanding and appreciation. Great preservation of Native culture. A remarkably unspoiled well preserved historical location that played an almost mythic role in our country's formation. Life of Hidatsu tribe-education for all Americans. The heritage of our North American Indian culture needs to be preserved for future generations. Historical. Knowledge of Indian culture.  Very interesting. Land where my ancestors came from and learning history of their ways. Native heritage of Indigenous peoples. Protecting/preserving archeological upper Missouri Indian Villages. To preserve the Indian heritage and pass it onto others.  Good learning experience for all. Very educational. Very good. Very significant because of Lewis and Clark, Sakakagawea, tribal movement over time and culture along rivers in Prairie. Native culture history. Reconstructing early settlers' life in the 1830s. Honors the ---- and ---- ----.  Their peaceful and ---- ways.  Exceptionally well done! Informing the public of how the tribes were so self-sufficient. It is very important to have cultural centers for children to learn from.  It teaches that there is diversity in the world. The significance of this park is to bring cultural awareness about Native American Plains tribes. Good teaching and experience on early American Indians. Very, very nice location. Indian culture.  Bison presentation outstanding. This park highlights the significance of the friendship established by the Mandan and Hidditsu Indians with the Lewis and Clark expedition. Early Native American settlements. Documents a part of Lewis and Clark's journey and contributions of Sacajawea.  This was a huge part of US expansion. Ranger's were very helpful and knew a lot about Indians. The significance comes both from its historic role for the Native American tribes who called it home and its place in Lewis and Clark's expedition. Life style of Native Americans. History of area. The info fur trade and first peoples on the continents. For the preservation of Native Americans and part of the historic Lewis and Clark trail. Native American lifestyle, housing is very important to all of us. An integral part in preserving this part of our history. History. Educational representation of the housing of native Americans in 1700's. Excellent, demonstrates different kinds of culture in native life and traditions.  All Indians weren't Sioux. History of native culture. It allows non native Americans to experience the culture and history of the Knife River people. Learning about the Indian way of life. Learning of our past and the value it provides to our future. To teach us the importance of this countries first inhabitants. Very important to remember native people. Education of the three affiliated tribes.  Keep the history in retrospect. Vital-preservation of our nation heritage is a MINIMUM level obligation. It's link to Lewis and Clark's success. It's testament to a great tradition of an ---- trader society on the verge of extinction. This is the site of America's earliest inhabitants-how could it NOT be significant? We as a people need to know the history of our entire nation. Boys 12 and 17. Preserving the Hidatsa culture. Historic education of local tribes and their culture. Preserve history. Important. Keeping history alive! Educational importance to keep history alive. Very needed. Major insight into lives of indigenous people as an important part of everyone's heritage. Historical education of the Native people, preservation and respect of the native peoples. The natural grasses and other vegetation.  The learning of another culture. History and culture of Indians at Knife River Villages NHS. Home of Sacajawea who traveled with Lewis and Clark. Super, awesome, ----.  Kept very nice. To educate the visitors about the highly interesting Native American history and culture. Teach about Hidatsa Indians. To remember how Indians lived many years ago. Preservation of Native American history. To teach Native American heritage."
87,Chaco Culture NHP,CHCU,"Historical, preservation, monument. Cultural heritage. The history of the Indian, how they lived. Culture and location. Absolutely-this is early American pre-history culture. History of America. The sight is important because it belongs to the people natives.  So happy it is because preserved. Our history and understanding of this land. It's important for me to discover and experience the ancient histories in order to keep the present in perspective. To tell about the native American history in our country. Cultural heritage. Cultural heritage. The cultural aspects and contribution of indigenous community invaluable. To honor the people who lived here long ago before the U.S. existed and educate people today about what happened here. Chaco culture and the great houses.  Dark sky designation. Historical record of a past civilization. Cultural history was amazing.  Video at visitors center very informative. Very significant!  All amazing historical place and also beautiful setting. Historical and cultural ---- inhabitants. It tells us how much of the past remains unexplained-raises questions about communal vs. individual behavior. 1. Learn history/culture of early civilization.  2. Opportunity for astronomy learning. Of UTMOST importance!!  This historical/cultural site must be preserved.  It is important to allow the world to see it while monitoring respect for the native cultures undescribed from ---- cultures. Preserving a cultural treasure. Preservation of cultural history. Excellent preservation and explanation of ancient Pueblo society. To keep our heritage safe, so generations to come can see and understand. Indigenous cultural historical value.  Quite remarkable site. Important historical, cultural site. History it is very important. Unique and priceless.  This is my third visit and continue to learn more each time.  Irreplaceable. People a thousand years ago were smarter than we give them credit for. To preserve and show some of the ---- archeology in the country. Share, preserve all that the park encompasses. The cultural hx of the ancestral publoans. Camping-tent area great. Include 1st come 1st serve. Thanks! Cultural heritage preservation. History. History, sense of place. It is an important part of our ancestral history and is a treasure to our nation. Cultural heritage. Fabulous park, must be preserved and protected. The history of Native culture and it's cultural significance. Native culture and history. Ancient native culture. Very significant. Great historical significance. It shows how hard the people worked back in the day to establish what it is today. To preserve the history ---- people. Preservation of ----. Allows everyone to learn about history and culture. 0 Great remember that ---- awesome ----. It highlights the ---- past and this it in with the present day Indians beliefs. Very important. One of the best sites I have visited. Opportunity to experience ancient history in the United States. Also the national parks ---- with antiques are important to US history plus ----. History, culture, beauty. Historic of spiritual park. Left ---- and mostly in its native state. Honors Indigenous tribes in area. Knowledgeable historical significance and wonderful opportunity to be close to cultural archeological buildings. 0 Historical preservation and education. History culture ancestry. Culture-heritage-knowledge-history we feel we are a part of our countries legacy. N. Parks play a big role. It is a significant part of our heritage. Thousands-important perspective about Native history and accomplishments, opportunity to learn from the past. Roots of native people ----. Am understanding and appreciating the Native Americans. Extreme. Emphasis on Native American culture. Extremely significant! Historical. All ---- and they are all ----. Cultural history. Educates about a world view of our indigenous people that we all need. Identity. It is a wonderful park. We could spend more time and come back again. Native American historical past. Native history, natural ---- and natural history, darkness. Preserving Native American culture. Protecting the cultural and spiritual heritage of native peoples. See how early Pueblo people lived their ----. Teaches and shows us to respect those who were the original peoples of what we now call America. Very. Beyond significant. Cultural significance of Chacoan people and heritage of native communities in the area. The history of the Indians who were here already when Europeans arrived. More than ---- ""national"".  This is or should be a world heritage sight.  This is a unique view into how a human culture arises and falls. Education. Archaeological significance. Preservation of one of the most important archaeological sites in the Americas. One of the highest in nation. To learn about the culture that once thrived here. Introduction to the magnificent achievement of the cultures. history of 1st Americans.  How they lived.  Spirited lives. Best native cultural site I have been to in America. The ability to view an ancient culture  that is different from other Nat'l Park ---- plus the black sky. The mind boggling meaning of the history of the area-I love it ---- want to be a volunteer tour guides were excellent. Native American Heritage and why of life. The history and heritage of the Chacoan people. Historical heritage dark sky. Foundational to our history, but more importantly, an icon of human history. Yes, very happy it was ----! Preservation and understanding of cultural history and respect of sacred space. Historical/cultural aspects of American Native peoples. Protecting the original people Hx long before us. Enormous! To remember the first inhabitants of this country, and pay respect to them. History of peoples. My daughter and I had a great experience and really enjoyed our stay. Indian cultures. Good immersion in native American history. Cultural GEM. The road into the park is awful!! Preserve native America culture, history, archeology. Cultural heritage. Preserving nature for future generations to appreciate. History of native cultures and as a dark environment for stair watchers. Understanding of nature American ancestors. Connect people to the ancient older cultures of our country. History. Yes. Ancient sites. Preservation of ---- culture ---- and antapads and ---- ---- citizen access. Very important. It tells us about this lands past, which should be important to all of us in America. The national significance of the park is that it is a reminder of the great civilizations that predated European exploration of North America. The historical of the Anasayi. Cultural ----. It holds the culture and way of living that once again should be uplifted and incorporated into our modern day culture.  It holds the stories of the land we live on. Cultural, historical, natural significance- native people, tribes, cultures from ---- of years ago. Introduction to historical cultures. Very nice. A reminder that people lived her long before the Europeans! History of land use by original ""owners"" of this land.  All of it adds to the history of mankind. Cultural and historic. As stated in the video at the visitors center, Chaco's energy draws people, Indian or not.  It's significance is indescribable in it's absolute immensity. Historical, educational, Soulful. It's the birthplace of many of our native people, as well as ecologic treasure and spiritual ----. Netah heritage-human, plant, land, animals. The significance to the WORLD to learn about past cultures and preserving important artifacts. Chaco culture. Keep history. History of the Indians how they lived and the intelligence they had. Ancient sites need to be preserved. Cultural heritage. Indian culture. Protection of cultural/historical site vital link to learn about settlement patterns of 4 corners area. We are all immigrants and travelers and need to be stewards for a sustainable world.  ---- for the work you done.  You need to do a full operational restoration of a great house for all others to have and full emotional, intellectual and spiritual experience for the betterment of all future peoples and societies. Shows the beauty and technology of Native Americans and that this is our history, too. The ""ancient"" history-the beauty of the land. I feel this Park is a wonderful example of our Nation's heritage and should be preserved, Great. Historic value of the Chaco Ruins. Tells the history of the Native Americans. Historically significant, cultural evolution. Allows us to learn of the people here before us. Invaluable. Very significant site, great programs. Commemoration and preservation of ancient cultures. Great importance. Preserving the culture of the Valley. The history of the Park is significant. Culture. Ancient Indian Culture. Value of cultural and geologic resources. Preserve the history and culture. Maintain historic cultural heritage. Very important to the history of the Nation. This Park (Chaco Culture ----) is significant because it offers a glimpse of pre-historic (and pre-Colonial) America and its inhabitants accomplishments. Incredible! Protect Pre-Columbian History. Extraordinary. Preservation of Native People's historical sites. Significant, especially to the Southwest. Celebrating our Nation's Native American history. It's a world history site.  An amazing collection of ancestral problems.  They must have had a powerful spiritual basis. Most important to history of North America. Indian and human heritage. Cultural Diversity and Night Sky Programs. To try and preserve the homes of the people our 19th Century predecessors destroyed! The Park brings to life important/essential parts of American history not often taught in schools and otherwise well known. It kept the Ruins sites up well, without being obvious.  Very well done. Demonstrates cultural sophistication complexity and technological sophistication of indigenous Americans. Important as reminder of rise and fall of a culture/civilization. These ruins are our cultural heritage. Preserving our Country's ancient ruins and historical education. It provides a unique perspective on the prehistory of the American continent and its people. Our history of the Indians, building techniques-tells us a lot about the people. Indigenous people's history. HIGH. Educate the public about indigenous culture, and that Columbus did not discover America. The culture and history of the region.  The architecture. Roofs of Native inhabitants. There is nothing like it any where in the world!  Archaeological treasure. Incredible ruins and preservation of great houses. Cultural history/landscape. Extreme.  Resources like this must be preserved and available.  Our current culture needs to be aware of our prehistory. History older than the Mayflower with rich cultures. Mystery, history and culture! Native studies. Significance of learning-living with natural world.  World Heritage Site! Understanding the past. The Native American Heritage. To preserve the Native American Cultures. Natural History. Vast historical info. To learn about the culture and lives of historical native people. Great!  Impressive! This is our oldest heritage and we can learn a lot from studying its past.  We must preserve it for future generations. Eleanor shows the beauty of America, demonstrates our history. Indian heritage. The Indian cultures are a significant part of our country's history, we all need to understand both the history and the way of life today."
88,Colorado NM,COLM,"Geological and historic significance, and natural history. A very scenic park, different from others. The geology and beauty, the serenity and quiet.  A great first intro to the desert for kids. Scenery, wildlife, solitude. The amazing beauty and grandeur of this park is a symbol of the West.  We love the quiet yet dramatic landscapes. Scenic beauty. Ability to see the formation of the land from a historical perspective and enjoy the breath taking beauty of nature. Preserves geological features that relate our natural history. Amazing and unspoiled tribute to the West. Geologic cultural history of Colorado/America. Preserves unique plateau landscape. Natural beauty. In any area of our nation that looks and feels so beautiful and important, we must recognize that it represents the best of us. A chance to expose my family to undeveloped lands that I feel confident they will show their children. Geologic beauty and preservation. Valuable historical, geological and biological significance. Invaluable resource to American history. Preservation of natural areas. Protecting one of the most beautiful spots on earth. God's goodness/creation ---- people to see the creator. Native Gods creation. Scenery preservation of wild lands. Great record of geologic and climate change. The incredible geology. The unique geology and history are amazing. It reminds us of the wonders of nature and it's ever changing landscape. Excellent geologic view. Beautiful site. Beauty. It's beauty 3 unique rock formations. Nature and wild life protection. Preservation of natural wonders. Preserved open/natural species for future generations. Beauty stunning scenery. Natural beauty, which is a national treasure. Preserve natural beauty of the area. This park is a good example of the geological formations characteristic of the West. Preservation of geological beauty. Helps teach the age of our earth.  Very accessible trails.  Shows yet again the beauty of our country. There is only one like this one and it is here! Great sculptures. Protection of both the environmental cultural heritage of the Colorado Plateau. Presentation. Protect and preserve so it is kept natural forever. The ability of visitors to get so close to areas of natural beauty and wonder.  The sights are accessible to all visitors. Unique geographic and rock formations. Pure beauty knowing this is in my state is awesome. It's beauty. It's uniqueness in our country. John Otto in 1905 writing letters to gov't etc about the canyons, so it became Colorado Nat'l Monument for all to enjoy and care for. Natural landforms to be preserved. Preserving natural and wild life. Scenery and geological history. This is a very special place. I prefer it to overrun NPS like the more famous parks. Bicycles are allowed on ropes, there MUST be a bike lane no lane no bikes. Historical, educational, previous settlers. The undisturbed nature of the park. Very. Historic (as a tour and from ---- this is wonderful scenery! Preserving natural beauty. The magnificent canyons and red sandstone monoliths understanding the geological significance of this area.  Preserving history and protecting nature. Very good. Beauty, exercise, closeness. Culture. First time visitor-very impressed-beautiful. History to be preserved for as long as possible. It's our first visit! The rock formations. To experience the natural beauty that most people don't get a chance to see. To be enjoyed by the masses, for generations to come. Displaying/preserving the beauty of God's creation. Grand Valley and Colorado's changing environment. It helps people learn about the wildlife and the physical features of GV. ---- Rec. To me is to value the hard work others in years back worked for for today's years. Awesomely beautiful. It is beautiful to see. Shows the history of our land. 1) Education and preservation of natural resources. Beautiful rock formation have been ---- national parks in area and ----. Geological formation conservation corp work. It represents our Western heritage. Preservation of natural heritage. So much history and preservation. Spectacular environment that should be preserved for future generations. The beauty. The geological formations are the best in the nation. This place is a GLOBAL treasure trove of geological history! Please keep this place protected and keep up the great education! Appreciation of a natural wonder and our national heritage. Beauty of canyons and rock formations. Every ""wild"" area is worth saving for public enjoyment. Great for protecting the beauty of the area and educating people about it. Hiking and biking. History beauty grace of God. Incredible natural beauty. Keep as is for future generations. Remind of what was here before us and what we should leave behind. The amazing, beauty, trails, access. The beauty. The reason we need to save these wonderful, natural places for the future. This land use to belong to the Native people. All of it. Beauty-knowledge-preservation of nature. Beautiful and natural wonders. The significance is in the minimal human impact.  There would surely be hotels and malls and homes everywhere. A national monument. The natural beauty of the nations is very important to preserve and protect. Geographic education, natural beauty appreciated 5 day pass.  Were able to return at different times of day. Preserve land and educate about the significance of the ---- nature their lands. Environmentally and historically significant. History and the geological features represented in the park. The spirit of the west! Very important for future generations. Teaching about biology and land stewardship. Probably should raise the admission cost. To protect and uphold the beauty of our country. Raw beauty unspoiled! Nature and uniqueness. It gets me to visit from Canada. Preserving natural beauty for generations to come. Beautiful natural site. Its beauty and accessibility to those who live here. The scenery and amazing geography. Beauty and learn how our landscape has changed through history. Has to be preserved for future generations. Incredibly important; a National Treasure! Nature taking it path. The stones and rocks here, I suspect, have seen far more than all of humanity. Very good over view of Colorado Plateau. Detailed for history and beauty. Educational.  Preservation.  Great example of Colorado geology Plateau. Enjoy the Canyons, Hiking. Its been pretty much the same since John Otto. The beauty of it. The geological heritage displayed FULL SCALE! The natural beauty. This is important for the rock formations of the Colorado Plateau as well as the history of the settlers in the area. Natural resources! Part of the great geological story of Western USA. Scenery. Preserving the beauty and providing access to all. We need to protect it and preserve it. To preserve America's natural areas while allowing the ---- of ---- to view the sites. Preservation of history and habitat, learning opportunity. Travel access. Geological history education, natural beauty, wildlife preservation. Historic vistas, preservation for future generations. History, diversity, beauty. Beautiful ---- ---- ----. Beauty and unique geologic features.  Incredible drive! Geographic research and learning. Respecting how the native people lived before the land was developed. Preservation of land. Everyone needs to se ethe beauty of nature. On the high (best) end. Wonders of nature and the impact it has on us. Beauty, history. Outstanding beauty, majestic and breathtaking scenery. The opportunity for people to see real nature. John Otto, the history the CCC camps/works project camp. The park is of great national significance, considering it's usage and grandeur. Beauty, environmental importance or geological history. Beauty. The natural beauty that should be preserved for future generations. The geological structure we have been to many national parks, but this is one of the best. History and educational facts. Outdoor air conditioning, LOL, nothing everything great. Demonstrates appreciation of natural aesthetics.  Encountered many people from other nations/cultures and experienced them as delighted with the CNM. Dedication of people to not give up on their dreams like the founder! Great place to go. It is one of a kind thanks Otto. Natural wonder. Opportunity for people to get our in nature, observe unusual land scapes and wild life. Preservation of natural treasures. To see the beauty of God's network. Geology, history, beauty! Great way to learn geology and how formed. Very significant!  Loved it! Ancient artifacts and scenery. Critical in determining how the geological formation of this continent occurring. Geological formations. Geology. Great history. History of nations geology and how it contributed to our existence today.  (Westward expansion, Gold and ecology for wild). History! I saw this park when I was 12 years old.  It started me on my quest to see all of the USA, I have 2 states left. It is our heritage of the Colorado plateau.  It sums up canyon country to visitors from all over the nation.  Rim Rock drive is unique. Protect natural beauty of the monument. Protecting our national treasures.  Promoting citizens to enjoy nature to preserve and respect it. Rich geological and human history.  Spectacular views. Save our natural resources and parks. Yes, heritage understanding, education for all. It's natural beauty, historical rock formations. We are thankful our nation recognizes the importance of preserving and protecting the beauty of our country. This park preserves a unique portion of the incompatible plateau's geological history and offers breath taking views of the canyon and rock forms.  It also offers numerous opportunities to see and learn about the fauna and flora that live and ---- here. Nature, geological, cultural. CNM is a unique treasured landscape that offers visitors an opportunity to really be ""wowed""! Unusual rock formations-similar but definitely different than other nearby national parks.  Loved the geology film at visitor center. Just nice to look at-peaceful.  Love the animals. A real ----.  Excellent. I have no idea. To keep beautiful lands open to the public and remind us of how the nation was built. Geologic significance. The beauty.  It could be a national park if more education was understood by the citizens of Grand Junction. Geologic, scenic, educational. It represents what our country represents and was.  That we value our outdoors. Fabulous western scenery!  Accessible. Landscape and natural settings.  History of the lands. To show how much Colorado has changed. Historic preservation. The monument was stellar. The rock structures. This is very significance for geologic studies. Preserving the natural beauty for future generations to enjoy. First of all, it is an unforgettable landscape.  The story of John Otto is an illustrative example of the American spirit of explanation and of the excitement to share wonder with all. It supports the American dream. The knowledge and awareness of the natural formation of this canyon monument and the millions of years it has been forming. Unequaled natural beauty. Colorado National monument holds another magnificent cache of red rockies in trust for future generations to help us understand all the changes that have accused through the millennia! An opportunity to see nature and to learn about the history of the earth.  To experience life outside of the city. Geological history.  Park development history. It is a gorgeous place to call America.  Really liked the drive through we did."
89,Pipe Spring NM,PISP,"It was an example of the importance of water in the West and how it continues to be important. The information provided has a great balance and educational honesty about the Native history and the Pioneers. History. Very significant and important site! Water. Teaching kids about cultural conflict within the country. Culture ---- fight over water. European whites attitude toward land and Indian. Education. Making known the atrocities that U.S. and religion partook in. More significant and keeping alive the spirit and perspective of tribes. So we may learn from them. Wonderful part of Mormon past. Great to learn of significance. Historic and cultural. Human history. Native American and Mormon history. It was a cultural ---- point for nature and white settlers. Such great history of THIS AREA. VERY interesting. The cultural ---- and ---- use in the area. Understanding cultural development. Great multiple perspectives and historical perspectives. Early primary and early Indians of the area. Enjoy this park and worth money. History of ---- settlement, water rides. History of Mormon religion. I'm very ---- to the indigenous people's nations. Their land ---- land ---- our land. Lots of great changes since the last time I was in here. Very impressive. Historical Settlement of the West plus the Native American's use of this area. History. Taking the South West for the United States. Preservation of history. History. The relationship of the Mormons and the Navahos-returning to grasslands. History-location. Helps to explain Westward expansion, religious freedom, and resource utilization. 3 groups constantly fighting over the pike spring. Indian history Mormon history Westward expansion. Great way to learn how the Indians used the land and how white man changed it all. Historical. History of early Mormon settlement/how landy H2O taken of Indians here. Learn how a small group of Mormons lived here 150 yrs ago. Remembering the significance of the ----. Seemed to be a significant use for the Mormon ---- not so much the nation. Cultural history and land management. Historical site. The history that needs to be told about cultural interaction. Cultures managing, most successfully, to blend-co-exist and be valued. This was different from any park we had been to.  Enjoyed the history of the peoples in the area. Very. Important as an explanation of nation's growth and use of area by first peoples to western expansion. Keeps us tied to our past.  When we know our past, our future becomes more valuable. That three different entities live and work together and have for many years! It tells a story that I had never heard before.  I found out about the clash between the Mormons and Pointes-completely ----. Relationship between Native Americans and Mormons was interesting. Visitor center staff were friendly and informative.  This is a very important monument to history in the West. This was a location that would naturally attract the various cultures. Culture and history. History of the area and time. It's an interesting historic site. The park not only tells the story of pipe spring, but provides insight into the settlement of it's American west. As a foreigner-it seems a very good effort to admit errors and start things fresh. As part of the history or western expansion and its effects on indigenous people and environment. History of settlement in the desert. History. Mormon and Indian history. Preservation of --- culture. Rights of the Indians. The overall history or Mormon sellers, this trip to the west and how they lived and survived. It figured significantly in the westward expansion or out nation.  It showed what hard work and dedication could be. A reminder of who we are, where we came from, and how far we have come with diligence, intelligence, and hard work. Beautiful replication. Here culture met, clashes, negotiated and finally made accommodations to live together in peace. High significance.  Very interesting I'm surprised! Native peoples and Mormon history; could do better on Native people representation. Historical significance of understanding forces involved in settling the West. Because of history. History of Mormon settlement, ecological damage, demise of Native American culture. Story of settlers taking Spring from native. History of SW America. Early American history.  Natural resources. Important. The history of what happened here! Connection between settlers and Native Americans. History of the Southwest. Mormon history. 0 Historical. The history of populating ----. Different cultures learning to co-exist together. Yes. Native ware. Great discussion of the Settlement history of the West-also impact on Native people. Learning about the history of Utah-Native Americans and Mormons. Rangers went out of way to help. History-where our nation comes from.  How our first white settlers lived. Significant to the original peoples and to the Mormons who settled this area.  Would like to have learned more at the Piante. Very high.  Tour of fort does a great job instilling important historical facts.  Ranger Brian was awesome. Place where Mormons and Painted co-existed (for most part). The place in the landscape. Makes people think of sustainability. To learn about the Native Americans and how they lost most of their land. Education about the history and experiences of the people in the area. To remind us of how we disrespected Native people throughout our history. As we walked in Mormonism was the most prominent topic.  I think it is more than that. Interesting lessons on water use/conservation.  Mormon and Paiute human history.  Excellent fort tour (great ranger) and front desk ranger. Preserving history and culture. We must learn history of Paiutes and Mormons and apply it to the present. Microcosm of greater national story-very well preserved and presented. The convergence of three peoples-the frontiersman, Mormons and Paiute tribesmen. The Native American contributions can get lost in today's busy activities.  Need a good opportunity like this. Historical. Both natural (native) tribal input as well as national park service a great advantage to both. History that should not be forgotten. How important water is and how the community (white man and Paiute) worked together. Mormon history is understated in classroom history-should be more. Native American culture. Preserve history, education. Remembering our past and celebrating it.  Learned about the Native Americans and LDS. An important part of history of the West. Great historical perspective on cultural conflicts. Reminder of who we are and how this area was settled. The sharing and relations of the spring and the different types of people that come through. Very nice. Family Heritage! Settling with Native inhabitants. The historic land that the people lived on. Yes.  It was a surprise great find. The ways in which people (indigenous and immigrant) survived in this area and thrived. Understanding ranch life in the desert. Very nice. American heritage. Historical significance!  Great information!  We can learn much from our past. Culture and history of natives and settlers. A view of history in the Southwest. Captures a changing culture. Early native culture. Learn history. The conflict of two cultures. Water in ---- contact of 3 cultures including ---- Americans and preservation of ---- and historical site. 0 Crossroads of ---- Mormon, and federal culture. Indian culture, church history. Preserve culture, history, and nature, educate-learn how different peoples can come together for benefit all. Native American-Mormon history. Pipe springs. Interaction of 3 different cultures. Preservation of life in desert during the 1800's. The work performed in daily life. A greater appreciation for early settlers and their hardships. Preserve nature and inform people of the importance of our natural resources. This is a great place. Tour need more advertising to get the word out. It's a must-stop. To learn the history of the land and learn respect. To leave a story for future generation. To preserve our past. Very important for the local history of the area and the ----. History of Mormon settlement on native lands, the way that settlers lived. Keep these lands for all people generations to come. More ---- of abuse of Native Americans. The history! ---- some handrails. This is a very important place in our history. To ---- use of our history! Historically very informative covering development of this area over a long period of time with many cultures. Interchange between natives, Mormons and Spanish. Educational value, letting people know what methods were used to steal this land from the original inhabitants. History of Native Americans early Mormon settlers in the area-addressing the conflict and cooperation that occurred. Showing history, surviving under harsh conditions. Native American history, pioneer history. Better understand the Native and Mormon History of the area. Historical.  This was a major cross road. The interesting ---- of different culture in history for this location. Understand conflict of people of the past. History. The Fort. Wise use of natural resources and development of good management. Cross Road of culture and history of Native Americans and Mormon Settlers. Cultural difference of many American Peoples. Cultural education and understanding the past. Describes ---- ---- Settlement, ---- American cooperation with use of land. History of Settlers. History, preservation. Love the Spring. Native American Traditions. Our Nation's history of conflict cooperative.  Understanding how others have been here before us and how they've used the land and resources. The historic connection of the West. To recount two very different stories of the groups that once and still inhabit the area through the Park/Monument. Very significant. Culture. A lot of help for those interested in getting to know more of the history here at the Fort. History of Southwest-cross-section of Mormon, Indian, and Pioneer living. It tells the story of the different stages of population and different peoples that inhabited this territory. Significant. The significance to understanding history and key fabric of American society. Water. It is significant nationally because it was Pipe Springs.  Area provided corn for pioneers, etc., passing through and for cowboys in charge of cattle on Arizona strip and ---- history is important. It helps to keep alive the pioneer/Indian story. Important in Mormon and Indian history. Provides a picture of what life was like during the time in the development of the country. Water, telegraph and history. Mormon pioneer history. Preserve an important part of the early history. The pages of history must be told and he told for all generations. I learned a great deal about the ---- culture, the Mormons and their interaction.  Just excellent. Great history of the area. Good to learn of early Indians. History preservation and education. Settlers and exploration, Western culture etc. historical significance. How various groups of people-Mormon cattle ranchers ----- ---- American Indians, depended on the water at Pipes Spring.  Plants and animals as well.  Also, how our resources are ---- as time goes by. Indian/Native American history and culture. Native culture and historical impact on the area."
90,Sleeping Bear Dunes NL,SLBE,"The dunes on the lake shore, the natural trees and shrubs, the proximity to prime vacation destinations. Nation beauty ---- ----. To preserve the beauty of its ---- lake shoreline and the history of human endeavor in the area. First state park in Michigan. Preserve lakeshore, encourage love of out doors. Americas greatest idea!!  We celebrate the beauty. History and beauty. Incredible natural environment, very unique. It's beautiful and unique. Preserving natural habitats. Enjoy nature. One of the countries last huge to the Great Lakes ---- and Michigan. Educational to teach ---- ---- the past and the present. Preserving beautiful environment for all to enjoy at any season. The unique dune habitat/environment along a fresh water lake! Location, preservation of the unique dunes, Native American roots. Its uniqueness and ----. Origin of the Coast Guard, value of ----. Preserving nature, educating the public to honor and respect our country's natural resources. Uniqueness and beauty. Good to learn about how people lived and ---- ----. Rare/unique ecosystems in close proximity provide a natural educational opportunity all can gain from.  Sand dunes are a rare topography that also provides this country an outdoor recreation.  This ecosystem and this area is of such high importance for species diversity that is our national and human duty to protect.  This duty supercedes any ---- ---- enjoyment. Shows significance of Coast Guard. Shows the varied beauty of this nation. Very scenic, Michigan ----, so location is very good, can't say enough for it. excellent park. A unique dune and shoreline within the continental U.S..  Freshwater ecosystem.  Accessible to large U.S. populations. Ecology. A unique biotope accessible to every person. Beautiful journey with great scenery. Unique ---- ----. Third coast! To protect the park and views. Shows beauty of area, historical buildings, etc.. The uniqueness of the dunes and the kindness of volunteers.  Lakeshore ---- ----. The natural beauty and ---- ---- a national treasure. Great ---- resource, Northern Pine, Maple, Oak forests, wildlife refuge. Education, preservation. Historical overview of northern MI agriculture and tourism. Natural beauty. Beautiful dunes and waterways, and great snowshoeing in winter. Dunes, great ----. Huge and calls attention to ---- visitors to Lake Michigan area. Location, facilities, lakes. The beauty of history of the lake and boats. The formation of what made the area fascinating to learn about geography and actual history of dunes. The beauty of the landscape and location. To preserve the early history of the lakes that we have around us and teach ways to do this. Changing coastline as a natural process. The Dunes. Unique beauty on the shores of Lake Michigan accessible to the public!  Great place! Sleeping Bear is a piece of paradise and should be protected from further development-and the paving through the campground was an atrocity-that bike path could have been elsewhere! The history regarding the ships that traveled on our lakes. Absolutely! The history of the ---- and the Coast Guard. Tops in natural beauty! Natural beauty. Picturesque. To show the true beauty of ----. Unusual/unique geology. Awesome.  Here 40 years ago, 20 years and here now. Recreation of the lake shore history of the area. Seeing our Nation beauty and that is preserved for future generations is ----. Lake Michigan shoreline and dunes keeping this area underdeveloped and available for everybody to enjoy. Recreation. Unique nature. The beautiful beach, trails, dunes, wild climbable dunes, islands, crystal clear water, rustic forest. Beautiful environment that needs to be protected and used for the good of the people. Dunes. New. Part of the great wonders.  Beautiful! Very beautiful available to every one. To encourage people to learn about natural areas. Preservation of nature. Extraordinary beauty!  One of the most beautiful places we've been. Good. The beautiful ----. Preserving the natural beauty of the U.S. and Michigan. Extraordinary beauty and a chance to connect with the outdoors. Lakeshore, Sand Dunes. Amazing nature very impressive. For some one from the Southeastern U.S. it was very informative. The beauty of the sand dunes, lake.  Love the fact that the water ---- and clear. Preservation of nature and experiencing its beauty. Allows good opportunities as land is becoming less available. It's beauty ---- ----. Most beautiful place in America. Location. It's historical and unique geological significance. It's beautiful, brings nature and people together in an un-harmful and peaceful way for all to enjoy and experience. Preserving Dune habitats. The beauty of America is displayed at its finest!. Was raised in Michigan and love the fact that we can enjoy the beaches and Park and learn the history. The Coast Guard/Life Saving Services needs more recognition and this Park gives it. Sanctuary for animals. The Sand Dunes and Shipping history. Inform people about commercial uses of Lake Michigan. Maritime history on the Great Lakes. Pretty cool, protect and preserve. The beauty of the area. Sleeping Bear Dunes. I've never seen dunes like these-they are amazing!  Love the one the grandkids could climb.  A sight to see! It's dunes are unique and gets people outside and away from electronics. Preservation of natural ----. Importance. Protecting the sand dunes and lake shore of Northwest Michigan. Bringing attention to this beautiful area, dunes and Lake Michigan, we love this park and these ranger programs. Preserving the natural landscape for all to enjoy and benefit from.  Loved Onuda Fair.  So authentic and low key. The beauty of nature and its wonders. Beautiful, ---- ----. The change of topography in the Midwest. Preserving the dunes, learning about glaciers and lake. Natural beauty! Natural landscape kept in its natural form. The beauty of nature and our responsibility to keep it beautiful. Great natural beauty. The Dunes. The natural beauty is astounding, so glad it is being preserved. The beauty of park and the ---- ---- to the state of ----. Unique eco system. Great lakes. Provides opportunity to view spectacular Lake Michigan scenery. The Dunes on Lake Michigan. Glacial formations. Been coming here for years.  Interesting to see how times have changed. National history and natural beauty. History, beauty and education. Retaining of nature's beauty for the nation to behold. Protect environment for future. Lakeshore aesthetics. Preserve what is rapidly changing source of beauty. The dunes and Lake Michigan. The Lake Michigan beach and dunes.  However, I wish there was more significance/more to do.  Port Oneida could be expanded. Natural Lakeshore preserve. Largest sand dunes in the northeast. Our first visit-impressive geology.  One of a kind!. Unique-nothing else like it. The beautiful landscape-Dunes, Lake Michigan, islands, forests. Very significant. Coastal wetland preservation. Nature, land forms. Beautiful natural occurrence. Natural beauty and activities. To demonstrate the beauty of the US. Great lake view. Preserving the sand dunes. There was not a ---- person of color in the movie (or Muslim or Mormon to ---- movie in lobby ----). Historical sailing and nature ---- ---- natural beauty of the area. History, geography, beauty, nature. It's natural beauty. Nature beauty. Teaching history of the region. Very good. Indian heritage, unique dune beauty. Unspoiled lake shore levels. Like all national parks they are America's best idea.  ---- of nature and culture and of course it's ---- Mich., Mich contribution to the US."
91,Chickasaw NRA,CHIC,"The unique ecosystem and beauty. Enjoyed my stay-thank you. It's beautiful. It's good just didn't like the leaches and the water. Cultural. 0 Cultural and fun. It's a great park. I have no words so far everything has been good and well secured by the officers. Very helpful. Natural Springs. Great. Need to learn more. Preserving nature. I don't know. I think Cold Spring campground needs a shower. I love that this place is preserved for its history and for everyone to enjoy. The cold water.  Nice park.  Friendly people. 0 A florist reservation. Come and spend family time. Family fun. Recreational. Natural beauty. The natural springs, wildlife and mountains. Having fun. To come together as a family. Natural beauty. To spend time with the natural Park. To have fun. The history surrounding the park is what makes it significant; Native American landmarks and culture. Conservation of forest and great environment.  Thank you for taking care. It gives people a chance to enjoy nature. It is beautiful, the peaceful nature is incredible. R & R. I don't know. History of the natural resources and the American Indian history. Nice place to swim in summer. A great place for families to spend quality time together and experience nature at its best. First time here I like it.  I will coming back. The natural cold fresh and ---- waters! Beautiful area and close to home, very clean area. Great, helpful staff.  Would love to spend more time here.  Beautiful spot! Beauty and the ability to visit nature. The cold springs! It was a part of Oklahowas history so it has rightfully earned its place as a national park. The history involved in the natural mineral springs. Regeneration of nature and wildlife.  Bison protection is amazing. The water springs can be enjoyed by the public because it is well-maintained and not polluted. I think it is very significant for nature conservation and education. I enjoy the relaxing atmosphere. Wonderful. We live at Byars and always come back because it's close and nice. Showing a piece of land similar to older times. Watching bison that you didn't get to see often was amazing. It's a fun and clean place to visit. We frequent it every summer. Cold springs. To honor the Chickasaw and preserve the land and history. Older than Oklahoma. CCC. In honor of the Chickasaw and preserve the land and it's history. 7th oldest, springs, CCC. My dad was CCC. I am not sure. Very important. Preservation of Springs and Woodlands. Water. The natural resources of the natural Springs is the attraction as well as the beautiful scenery. This is my favorite place to camp and the Park is always in top shape and clean. Environmental ----. Beauty, quiet, opportunity to get away and be with nature. Water and buffalo. 0 Enjoyment of water. The water. The springs are great. Springs and waterfalls. The water is cold. Good. Enjoyment of the springs and the history of the park as it relates to sulphur. The water is cold. A gift from Chickasaw. Native American culture and history. The cold springs. It is wonderful. The same in all ways. People can more about Indian culture. It helps understand the importance of our wildlife and environment. Wildlife and water. It has a lot nature, beautiful springs, mineral water, and wonderful campgrounds.  Excellent security. We value our freedom I use and have access to national land.  The park is significant to our families recreational opportunities. The Town of ----. Cold water. Love the lake it's very clean and camp sites are very clean. National treasure for every one to enjoy as long as they don't abuse it. Water. Native American culture. It showed the beauty still in our state. Campsite. A beautiful place.  Not sure of nat'l significance other than preserving the natural springs. I was told it was $7-established before OK became state-it's in my state.  Beautiful area, easy to get to. Indian culture. Our nation's beauty. Family recreation and ----. The nation always has best facilities and wants to provide the best for customers. It is a great outdoor place to bring family. Natural lake and surrounding wild life. Nature allowed to be natural. The history, relaxing. Not sure, have not been around much yet. My opinion the park is for rest and relaxation.  But the history of the park is the significant part of pack. Learning about the culture and nature of this park. To allow people to experience the outdoors and to learn about the Chickashaw Nation. Appreciate Chickasaw nation. The natural springs and getting to experience nature in a beautiful, protected setting. Great water areas. Important for people, and families good activities and bonding good family bonding activity which will build a better nation. The nature and the trees, and breezes. To maintain natural environments, wild life and to train younger generations to respect nature at it's best. Rest and relaxation. The conservation of the clean spring water. Nature. Restore and reestablish wild life. Excellent experience! Chickasaw Indians. Great family opportunities. In my opinion, the water. It is a wonderful opportunity for family recreation and learning the history of the area.  My family came when we were kids and see now brining the grand kids. It's a great experience for everyone. Native American cultural relations. Natural beauty. The natural springs. Family time, memories, wonderful. Tribal lands. The significance is that the park preserves the natural springs so that people from all over can experience the rarity of natural space. The bathrooms could use some fixing up, and showers. Preserving the creek, Chickasaw history and culture. Healing water, history of Chickasaw Indians. The water, protecting the springs. It is the best place for camping. Platt National Park, Chickasaw National heritage. Very good and clean. Allow people to see nature at its best. The springs and the wildlife to me seem to be the key to this park! Excellent nature experience.  Geographical wonder.  The natural springs and history is great to enjoy and learn about. History, natural resources. Natural beauty. A place to enjoy God's creation and the beauty of nature. Learn about the nature of this area. Preserving the land and heritage of the Chickasaw Indians. Maintaining beauty of the area. Chickasaw NRA is a unique park in its natural beauty and cultural history.  We need more parks like this. It preserves the nature of this area. To learn about the past. Very good.  The nature center. It's great. Having a place to bring our family for vacations. The water. Yes enjoyed bison as well. Adds to recreation needs of people. Great place to experience our states history, culture, and to enjoy the ice cold water. It preserves the natural beauty of the nation and allows the community access to nature. Culture. Excellent source of entertainment and outdoor camping. Don't know. Have fun. Chicksaw nation. Very significant to families for recreation and relaxation. Natural scenes, beautiful lake and springs. Beautiful park. Historical. Honor to the Chickasaw. Preservation and education regarding natural resources and Indian culture. It's a hidden gem!  Very enjoyable, well maintained and beautiful! Its beauty, cold springs, wildlife. It's a jewel in the state of Oklahoma. Clean water, very healthy for all stress reliever. The Native American influence. Natural beauty of of the Native area. Chickawaw ---- nation. Nice to have these areas for future use. Much needed outdoor activities and recreation for families to enjoy. The Cold Springs. Loved learning about the CCC and how they built the buildings, etc.  Very interesting."
92,Padre Island NS,PAIS,"Attempt of preservation.  Bird Island Basin awesome.  Malacise Beach no control!  Too many trucks. Preserving coastline and habitat for wildlife and future generations. Love this place.  Last place in America I can drive 60 miles and get away from the crowds. Protection of Barrier Island and habitat. Nature conservation. Great-few natural seashores left. Beauty of U.S. shore. Beautiful preservation of the Barrier Island. Very significant, I love the national Park service. It encourages people to protect nature. So glad it has been preserved and protected from development! Sea/shore. Most gulf beaches are developed.  It's ---- to see the coast in it's natural state. A natural area.  No building, no hotels, no commercials. Yes-we need to preserve as much land as possible. Because you have a gulf and Laguna and the opportunity to have many animals. The undeveloped areas!  Absolutely! Bird Refuge. Preserve the natural beauty of our great Nation for all generations. It is such an important pristine natural environment.  Glad it is protected and undeveloped. Access to natural beach-wonderful! The importance of sustaining a natural environment not only for wildlife, but a generation to experience. Shoreline and conservation of wildlife. Largest underdeveloped island working on Kemp's Ridley Sea Turtle Survival. Place for sea turtles to nest. It is one of our great barrier islands. Long lost underdeveloped beach. Our shorelines are part of the nation and important to keep uncommercialized and to protect plants and animals. It was Spring Break ---- no movie was shown.  How much talent does it take to hit the stupid button. My significance is that it is a wonderful area to come and enjoy and learn about nature. Unique to the planet!  Some thing to be proud of.  Valuable for Turtle rescue."
93,Eleanor Roosevelt NHS,ELRO,"Yes.  Women in history!  Behind every great man is a greater woman. Great-shows the possible roles first ladies can play in government and how those roles influence the nation's decisions. The legacy of FDR and Eleanor Roosevelt the presidential/significance and Eleanor as an individual. Shows the greatest woman of the 20th Century.  Life and its alternatives.  Inspiring. The opportunity to learn about Eleanor and see where and how she lived.  This program was very informative and the presenter was awesome! This Country can solve problems of the people. I visited Roosevelt's Hyde Park and Val Kill Park.  Hyde Park-history; Val Kill-is a place to share with young girls*. A celebration of the country's best First Lady-I'd like to think she is the woman all other First Ladies aspire to be. Acknowledgement of a woman who should never be forgotten. A major force of the 20th century. A magnificent example of what one can do for humanity. She was the wife of one of America's greatest Presidents. She ---- a world leader for the humanitarian efforts. Brings awareness of the great woman Eleanor Roosevelt was. The museum ---- the ---- FDR and ----. Eleanor Roosevelt was one oft he ---- important people in our history. Was moving to be ---- of all her contributions. Eleanor Roosevelt is the most significant proponent of social support network in our history.  Valkill is a source and expression of her qualities. Eleanor paved the way for expanded roles for women in careers outside the home.  Val Kill was a place of her own where she grew her business and role in politics. Recognition of the role of Eleanor in war time, peace time and international human rights. Very important-Eleanor was major figure of 20th Century. To hear how dynamic and important ER was to our country. Historic home of Eleanor Roosevelt-Valkill. Understanding Eleanor as an outstanding woman politically and personally. Eleanor in spite of challenges in her life ""never gave up-instrumental in the row of women in leadership position. It gave an up close and personal look at the life of America's most active (and probably most important) First lady. Extremely significant-FDR was out of our most influential leaders. Feeling a ""pride of ownership"" of history, having an opportunity to walk where they walked and honor our great leaders. History of terrible depression and how we climbed out extraordinary effort of Eleanor and Franklin. The greatness of Franklin and Eleanor reminds us of what can be accomplished by wise leaders. To learn more about the lives of Franklin and Eleanor, and their influences in the country and around the world. For people to learn more about our nation's history, specifically our U.S. president. I like the fact for a few moments you can step into someone else's life and see what they saw and what they felt was important in their lives.  It brings them alive. First ""First lady"" to be truly involved in politics and equality rights.  Very important! To preserve the structures and furnishings for historical value. It is valuable to keep. To inform about the wonderful contributions of Eleanor and to honor her memory.  No one will equal her in history! It is the home of the first political and also social activist wife of a president. Influence of Eleanor Roosevelt on public policy-a woman who made an important difference on our country. It highlights the achievements of an American heroine and inspires future heroines. To capture the history of our country through FDR and ER. Provides information and documentation connected to a very critical time for our nation and to two remarkable people who led our country. Both FDR and ER had such professional positive impacts on the ---- and the world's history and trajectory.  Great educational benefit! Eleanor Roosevelt WAS after all, the wife of an important President; HOWEVER, she was an important woman in her own right and her efforts led to many civil ---- changer. ER is a national treasure. Opportunity to learn history and chance to emulate values of the Roosevelt's. Park personnel were outstanding, especially Shannon at Top Cottage.  Delighted to meet 94 year old ""Grandma"" volunteer. Keep alive the period of history from the Great Depression thru WWII. I learned more about FDR and ER and their impact on the USA.  Learned more about their personal lives. Eleanor Roosevelt was the first of first ladies that contributed to history directly!  Enjoyed the whole property! A very important FEMALE historical figure of our Nation's history. Retreat of our most renown First Lady. It's a living tribute to a significant ---- in political and civil rts. Reflects values and thoughts of Eleanor R. Preseves historical site of importance. It chronicles the important contributions and changes ER and FDR to American society as a whole that are still felt today. To provide insight on the life and times of ER-a champion of the poor and undeserved in U.S. and the world. Eleanor Roosevelt was a champion of all humanity. Human rights, women rights! 1. Historical preservation.  2. Pleasantly ""feminist"" aspect.  3. Pretty countryside well kept up. Incredible ----.  Ranger very well versed.  Room with first film musty-but movie was excellent. This park demonstrates the quality of our past leaders and projects the open mindedness, intelligence, and compassion that all citizens should strive to achieve. This park is significant because of the contributions Eleanor Roosevelt made to not only the U.S., but to the world. Eleanor Roosevelt influence even today world wide. Eleanor was a great woman who has done so much for this country.  I would vote for her to be our President. Insight into E. Roosevelt as major 20th century figure. History. Home of Eleanor Roosevelt-place where she worked on Declaration of Human Rights. It shows the importance of Eleanor Roosevelt live even after the death of FDR. It was the home of an important figure in American history-a woman who helped to change history and who transformed the role of first lady. Yes, Eleanor Roosevelt was an involved first lady and she cared a great deal for this country. FDR and Eleanor helped our nation heal.  Eleanor's home reflected her personality.  We need a president who has her ability to lead by example. To be reminded of Eleanor Roosevelt and all she did for our country.  Significance of her retreat and the very important events which took place there. Great information on our greatest first lady! Telling the important story of Eleanor Roosevelt, her accomplishments, and influence on America. To learn more about how important Mrs. Roosevelt was. Everyone should know the accomplishments of Eleanor. It tells the story of a WOMAN who made significant contributions to Civil rights and working conditions (improvements). Mrs. Roosevelt was symbolic of the national progression we pride ourselves with. It values clear why Eleanor Roosevelt was and is an oustanding and ----. Established Eleanor Roosevelt as a significant ---- to women's rights and ---- our voice was ----. Encouraging to women, girls, all humans ----. Education-Eleanor was a great lady. It inspires us in our ---- to forward the work ---- and human rights. The UN declaration of Human Rights remain the most important global agreement. Val-Kill recalls the woman who made it happen. It was raining! The importance of international diplomacy and women's vital role in leadership, politics, advocating for human rights, and journalism. Historical for future generations. The role and model of a ---- American woman. To learn about how Franklin and Eleanor lived, and her factory. Dimitri was an excellent guide/ranger. Eleanor Roosevelt is incredibly important and I am so happy to have learned more about her and her ----. Eleanor Roosevelt is one of the most important women in history, deserving of a national facility in her honor! Emphasized ER effect on social and economic conditions in country. Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt is the most important first lady, a pioneer in Civil Rights and the best advocate for basic human values for all. E Roosevelt very important American woman. Eleanor and her persistence. History. The significance of this park is to give honor and recognition to one of the most important women in our time. This ark is the only park for a first-lady. She still impacts the country today. Her legacy, moral conviction are inspiring. To reveal and teach about the life of a great humanitarian. Extremely significant. Covers a vast range of years of history. Inspiration from learning about a great leader in civil rights and international peace. To encourage young women to be role models like E.R.  Anyone can lead a nation! Significant!  The Roosevelt's continue to live in our nation and inspire our people to be better! Learned so much about the life of amazing E.R-her fight for civil rights and her determination to help others.  So important politically today. Eleanor Roosevelt helped lead the nation during a very difficult time for the Country...the Depression and WWII. Telling how important history is to preserving the political and moral integrity of our great Country.  We need more now of what we had in the past! To keep her memory alive for generations to come.  To realize what a powerful woman she was. It provides a glimpse into the more private life of an incredibly public woman. To educate that ER was more than just a 1st lady.  The importance the ---- in ----. ER was one of the most significant women of the 20th century and she deserves this recognition of park status.  A memorable and moving experience for me. It educates the public about the life and achievements of a great lady who served her Country well and made a positive impact on the world. WWII, the Works Programs, VA benefits, SS, leadership and ELEANOR. This site invites the public to a beautiful home of a remarkable woman who moved in the highest circles, but connected to all people and spoke for ""us."" Eleanor Roosevelt was such an interesting woman!  Our guide added new information for us. To honor the most important female public figure in our history. This park honors the Roosevelt family and shows the impact that they had on American history. The significance is that this site has a tremendous amount of history. Hyde Parks grounds were the setting for many meetings and conferences that changed and molded America for the past 80 years."
94,Muir Woods NM,GOGAd,"The Redwood trees and the live stream. To preserving the natural beauty of the redwoods.  It is important to ---- nature alive and thriving. Preservation for future generations historic treasure. History and preservation. Preserving the redwoods. The preservation of the majestic redwood. It's important to preserve native and nice to have somewhere with fresh air near such congested cities. Our heritage, beauty. Area to appreciate America's nature. Importance of conservation. Very rare tree/plant life. Amazing sights-trees! Protects the beauty and diversity of the American landscape.  Big trees are cool. Preserving our nation's natural beauty and historical content. Conservation, preservation, value of the world we live in and impact of humankind. Saving a national treasure, explained wanted to exploit the land for lumber then for waterway. Preserves Redwoods. The age of the trees/history. Conservation of our depleting natural resource.  Education. Pride, history, natural wealth. Preservation of our natural forests including accompanying natural resources. Preservation of a national treasure.  We need to preserve these pieces of heaven. To see something that is God made. Preserving redwoods and learning about John Muir. There ---- ---- of native. Great outdoor, Pease, tranquility good ---- were higher. Historical. It is nice and pretty.  A lot of fresh air. Keep protecting our parks. I don't have an understanding of this. Very important because is our nature and trees are very ---- for life. Just a very special ---- ----.  Enjoy the Redwoods. History. The cleanness, ---- still nature. It preserves the way the earth ---- ---- we took it over. Provides access to millions of visitors to the great Redwoods. The views of redwoods and the amazing nature this park should be a sanctuary, a quiet, beautiful natural space for people to explore. To preserve it's beauty. The rarity of the trees and their age. Represents our value in ---- resources. RIP John ----. Trees. Redwoods! We are a family of 4 visiting from Sweden.  We enjoyed the visit at the park, it was very nice. Presentation of redwoods and recreation area near ---- Cool trees preserved for all. Preserving the ---- for ----. Old world forests being preserved. Critical importance ---- Preservation of redwoods. Awesome trees! Like all parks-sites-monuments.  We have enjoyed every minute. National parks are very ---- Natural magnificence. Visually striking. Great for tourism. Natural beauty, history. Very happy this area has been preserved. Show natural beauty and expose ----. Science, nature, learning experience. Demonstrates the importance of protecting forests and their habitats.  The trees ---- where we come from and the history of our plant. Beautiful Redwood.  We enjoyed this peaceful park.  Thank you! To admire mother nature. The redwood trees. It's an amazing place to conserve so close to a major city. Stand of very old trees is very significant; timelessness of natural beauty. The trees. History. Scenery. Preservation of ---- forest. Keeping the trees from logging. The history of the trees and the clean air. It's natural beauty gave me a better appreciation. Redwood. It is preserving some of the most beautiful forests and trees in the country. Very important to keep these trees vibrant and available for public access. The significance of the park-the temple of nature itself-is of international rather than national. It preserved one of the last remaining old growth coastal redwood graves. Valuable resource and educational park able to enjoy nature a short drive from ----. The trees min. Beautiful! Preservation of giant redwoods. Preserving nature. Only complaint would be for more parking.  Thank you for preserving the Redwoods.  It was a beautiful park and wonderful experience. Show the beauty of CA. Just that I was here before we were and will probably stand after we are gone. Great place for tourist to visit. To preserve the previous forestry resources. Shows really old trees and forest area. Trees are so important!  ---- ---- destroyed so much.  Thankful we saved these.  Save on! The trees. Preserve for visitors to see redwoods. Besides the UN staff?  The beautiful tree's. Nature/history/preservation. Preserve nature and protect for future generations. Beautiful and awe inspiring. Protecting the rewards. Preserving old grown forest/awesome trees. It would have been a ---- ---- ----, had been ----.  Thank you on preserving. ---- and ---- ---- ---- and the ---- John ----. It's a land mark of Redwood trees. The preservation of the redwoods. It is the care of these magnificent trees and giving everyone an opportunity to experience them. Last remaining old growth redwood forest should be cherished. Historical, biological, conservation. It allows all people to experience nature at it's best.  As a city person it is humbling experience and a great reminder how important it is to take care of our earth. Preservation of iconic trees. The trees. Preservation of the land is of what nature has to offer. I love nature. To see what it was like before people. Preservation of age old trees. Preservation of National Forest/trees/habitat. Yes! Generosity, nature, beautiful, important to the world. The UN. History of our country survival. Essential! Naturally occurring trees found ---- else are incredibly humbling ---- ---- preserved for generations to come. To teach children and adults the value of keeping our heritage. In a time where climate change is still being denied by many, it serves as a stark reminder of the importance of conserving our natural national treasures. The ---- importance of redwoods. Keeping the redwoods alive and well. Natural beauty, informative. Redwood groves. One of the most important, beautiful and important part of our country that we most protect. Extremely significant. Saving the redwoods. The trees and nature. Often space is valued to people.  Redwoods are amazing and rare therefore they should be preserved. Giant sequoias. It's an opportunity to show CA's natural heritage to visitors ---- ---- the world. It is beautiful to admire God's creation. The history for this nation. The trees. Preserves Red Woods and always visitors to see these tremendous trees, and John Muir's legacy. Preservation of a unique redwood ecosystem, including native flora and fauna.  The awesome spectacle of huge and old trees. Tables and flies. Tall tress which form rain forest canopy. Awesome tall trees. Preserve and inform. The park preserves the land and it's resources and allows visitors to participate in the history and beauty of the area. Memorializing John Muir's legacy. Beauty in nature. A protected place to see iconic Redwoods close to SF. Important to see Sequoias/Redwoods naturally. Preservation of precious nature. God's creation. The Redwoods. Very important. To preserve the Redwoods. Natural beauty. Protecting/preservation of trees. Enormous trees-worldwide unique. Preserving Redwoods and history. Preservation of Redwoods. Heritage. Our common knowledge. It is a national treasure! Unique habitat, beautiful Redwoods/region. Our society is able to get away from the stress of society and get in touch with our inner humanity. Conversation, and the ability for all people from local to around the world to be able to visit. Preserving our natural resources for all people to learn more about helping our earth. Censervation. Preservation of the beauty of redwood in Northern California. The history of the UN Delegation honoring the President-the establishment of the Park System."
95,Tuskegee Institute NHS,TUIN,"Promotion of black history and important black people. So interesting and important...it is a shame that it is so starved of funding. Important since also people from different continents (me) should be able to learn about this important part of history. To illustrate the importance of social-economic inclusion, which allowed Carver to prosper. George W. Carver. Remember the magnificence of a Godly mind. Education added to a university that's historical. Education. History lesson for one of the nation's great scientists.  G. W. Carver a national treasure. To learn about Black American self-determination and contributions to the nation. Black history. G. W. Carver was very significant historical figure. History! I am very pleased. Knowing the true history of an American icon. Black-American history. Knowing/learning of the significant agricultural and economic contributions of George Washington Carver and Tuskegee. Historical value is priceless. Its rich cultural history. To help educate African-Americans of their history. The history that George Washington Carver and Booker T. Washington contributed to this country. To highlight the wonderful works of a remarkable American and to inspire others to follow his lead. It highlights basic and rudimentary values of human life. Education. Importance of education. A great educational experience.  A great man and he contributed to all fields of science. Excellent resource for history. To make aware and honor G. W. Carver. Tuskegee Institute played a vital role with the education of African-Americans and assisted the nation with agricultural procedures for lifetimes to come. Both Shirley and Brittany were amazingly helpful with w/c assistance.  Polite, patient and very helpful.  They were worth a trip to the museum! To  make people make aware of the contributions of George Washington Carver. A great source of education. Education. G. W. C. did so much for farms during that time. Historic.  Black history and education. It's part of the U. S. history and should be maintained; the legacy of Booker T. and G. W. Carver should continue for all generations. Large contributions to agriculture, geology, and African-American culture. Learning the history of George W. Carver and his influence on American society and culture.  Not to mention Booker T. Washington's influence and accomplishments. My knowledge base. Part of our heritage of educational opportunity for all."
96,Prince William Forest Park,PRWI,"It shows the new deal worked and was a great thing for America. Prince William Forest honestly feels more like a state park. Probably the pyrite mining is the most significant national story. WWII training camp and open space. OSS training facility during WWII. It represents much of what this nation used to be before consumerism, industrialization and technology became primary. The preservation of American nature. Relaxation. Location to historic sites/towns close by-very nice to have camping area this close to DC and high population area. OSS history. CCC history. Preservation of Wildlife and natural habitat. 0 We live in Stafford and it is our practice place to go to leave the traffic and not race. ---- for Quantico Maine ---- We live in one of the most beautiful places in the world. Our national parks preserve and protect that natural beauty. Training area for O.S.S. This park provides an opportunity for urban people to experience natural, ---- history of the area.  Spaces such as these are disappearing rapidly, so it's ---- and ---- ---- a wonderful gift. Don't know. Not a clue, I though it was just property ---- to preserve some natural ---- from development. CCC history, preserving traces of older settlements in the area. It represents important parts of our history with the ---- and the demonstration area to expose youth to outdoors. It is a quiet retreat used during the depression for children.  It shows how the area was formed from the ----. Oasis in N. Virginia.  Large remaining track of Piedmont Forest. Old pyrite mine used to help the WWII effort.  CIA training. Proximity to the nation's capital with a beautiful forest.  Close place to get away from it all. More national, local/preserving hardwood forest area). A tranquil environment to experience nature. A protected watershed, a protected natural area. It provides a place for people to get away from the city and enjoy nature while learning about the Civilian Conservation Corps.. 0 I like seeing the history of the park, and I like to come here to exercise-walk. The importance of preserving nature and the past cannot be overstated. Large green space so near Washington Metro area-OSS and OCC historical significance.  Wildlife is impressive too. Natural preserve near high population areas. Beautiful nature. Beautiful and ---- area.  Historical significance to World War II and O.S.S. To bring outdoor recreation and nature to those that otherwise have no ability to experience. It holds a great deal of ecological diversity that is important to preserve for future generations. To insure that the natural resources will be preserved for later generations to come. House children relief camps during the great depression. It is an amazing place, and an example of what Virginia looked like before it was developed.  I love it! Convenience and opportunity to enjoy God's creation. Its national significance to local and national history and culture as well as its preservation and conservation of floral and fauna is very significant. The preservation of nature in an area that is rapidly urbanizing and growing. OSS, and CCC, Mining History location near DC. Believe it was an army corps of engineers family camp or for immigrants.  Really I have no idea. I love this park because of the fact that it reveals the regional plants and animals. CCC, Dept. of Interior, OSS camps (pre-CIA). Not familiar with its national significance. Preserve wilderness for future generations. We enjoyed learning about mines, the history of the park etc. Love the trails ---- ---- ---- it takes quite a ---- ---- is clear ---- ----. A preserve of the Eastern Piedmont forest, also site of OSS for training WW2 spies."
97,Natural Bridges NM,NABR,"Learning about the natural, human, geological, and social history of the West ---- ancestral ---- and ----. Dark skies, open spaces, quiet, avid landscape left mostly for wildlife without human demands, beautiful erosion from prehistory, sacred, spacious. Preservation of natural formations of the earth. Geologic-unique natural bridges, ancient ruins, beautiful wild flowers, extensive crytobiofic crust. Ecologic uniqueness and solitude. Rare and exquisite and vistas natural beauty and visible learning on geology and weathering. (1) Keep dark skies.  (2) Protecting fabulous natural wonders. Preservation of amazing natural and cultural resources for the benefit and enjoyment of future generations. Illustrate the power of ---- and water magnificently. To preserve natural wonders for our generation, and generations to come. It's beautiful. Unique bridges and the bright canyon. Unique landscape, canyons and rock formations.  It is unspoiled and undeveloped and remote. The houses of the native Americans (Indians). The significance to the people and it's culture and the importance of it's history and geology of the area. The natural bridges and ruins.  To see history and nature at its best. The remoteness, the beauty, the silence and the dark skies. Ever lasting Bridges. Natural beauty/wilderness. Safe guarding of natural heritage. Small brother of Arches beautiful Bridges. Geologic uniqueness. Geology, geologic processes, natural history ecology. Preservation of Bridges and Ruins and enabling viewing by the public. The geology and historical significance of the Cliff Dwelling. The Three Bridges-and not very crowded. Natural beauty and resources; cultural ruins and significance. Opportunity to see how wonderful our Country is. Preserve National treasures and beauty. This Park has incredible natural beauty and millions of years of history.  It is very meaningful to see it.  I feel pride that our Country has this Park and preserves it for our citizens.  All the Rangers are very nice! Very unusual and eco and geologically significant formations. We as a Nation preserve the beauty and grandeur of nature.  Saving this land for all to see shows respect for natural ----. Another amazing part of America. Geological, archeological, and cultural history. Keeping natural wonders for the generations to see. Views Night and Day. Wonderful views, spectacular Arches. Unique nature as found no where else in the world.  I feel honored to be able to see this beauty in our Country. The history of the Indians who lived there and their way of life. Incredible geological formations!  Amazing to see up close and personal.  Great hikes to budges. Excellent park, well worth the visit. 0 Bridges unique, compliment ---- significant Southwest site. Very different natural formations."
98,Pictured Rocks NL,PIRO,"Enjoyment of unusual/beautiful rock formations. The history of this and other areas we visited in the U.P. was amazing.  We all enjoyed learning about the area and attractions.  Thank you. The incredible and unique beauty of the shoreline. It is a historical one-of-a-kind natural splendor of our country.  Absolutely incredible!! Amazing water fall, beautiful views as we walked down the steps. Low cost NATURAL BEAUTY-family and community friendly. The natural beauty and untarnished view should be preserved for everyone. Maintain access for all in the future. P. R. is absolutely gorgeous and I am happy and proud to live in a Country that values it enough to protect. Historic buildings look run down and unmaintained. Beautiful past and present natural history of our nation.  Loved picture rock area. To save the rocks. A Treasure for all generations. It shows the aesthetic and geological value of the Upper Peninsula. ----. Love it all.  National Parks are #1 on my Bucket List. Exposure to nature and all the beauty! That you don't have to go to the Bahamas for crystal clear water. The geology. Beautiful formations and unique. Great lakes splendor. The ---- ----. It's pretty. The significance of this park as of any other, is to preserve beauty for everybody to enjoy. Important. Beautiful, important sites, important for future generations. Scenic rocks, good ----. Great wilderness and hiking. This is a fascinating place, quite unique from anywhere else.  It is one of my favorites! Education of wilderness.  Keeping open spaces! The rock formations, waterfalls, access to Lake Superior, beaches, hiking. Picture rock cliff is great! Preservation and observation of a natural wonder, education. Because of it's native American history. Waterfalls and prox. to Lake Superior. Cliffs and view. Mostly nature and the scenery on the decks are wonderful. The beautiful view and the cliffs. The beauty of the area and to see how other generations seen the same area. I don't think the government should own it, the state should. Beautiful area!  Remote areas.  Pristine. Mining. Protection of an ---- natural beauty ----. History of the UP and natural landmarks. Natural beauty. Beautiful sightseeing. Preservation of history and nature. Appreciation of nature, hiking and recreational opportunities. The beauty of the park ---- the beauty of America. To learn the history of what makes this area important to the state of Michigan and how it is important to surrounding states. Clean beaches and water, easy access, clearly marked sites of interest. On the largest lake which contains 10% of the fresh water of the world. Natural splendor.  Scenic view with Native American roots. Such a heritage for our future generations needs to be preserved better. Waterways and sandstone. God's beautiful creation preserved for future generations. The nature landscape and pristine setting-can't find it anywhere else! It's so pretty! The fact that there is no other place like this on earth, including other great Lakes Parks.  This Park is truly unique and should be preserved FOREVER! The pictured rocks and the waterfalls. It's natural wealth. Protection of nature, while visitors can enjoy the wonders. Natural beauty, history. Immeasurable.  Need more. An excellent aesthetic and recreational site.  Unique geology and natural history, and human history. Unique geographical area. Great hiking and biking trails. In addition to the unique natural landscape it provides an exceptional opportunity to ---- unplug from society and immerse yourself in ----. Natural beauty, landscape, heritage. Amazing geology and beautiful view. Ship wrecks, historical light house, shore formations. The geographic features: rock formations, water falls and coast line (beaches-rocks/water) are amazing!  An absolute gem that must be preserved.  The woodlands are beautiful as well. Rock formation. Preserve our beautiful land, protect it from excessive commercialization.  Protect a portion of the environment. Location next to Lake Superior and is for everyone to enjoy.  Great trails and sights to see. A beautiful representation of a natural waterfall.  What Michigan has to offer. Its beauty is so unique, as it its history. Great lake shore, boating, hiking, etc.  All good. Natural beauty, preservation of geological features for future generations, learning about planet earth. Logging history, ship wreck museum, light houses excellent. It's beauty and a hidden gem of the Midwest. Preserve wild life. Natural beauty. It's the gem of the!!! My bud works here. The outlooks. The view, outlooks. Awesome!  I will be back!  Sing everyone's praises here! The beauty of the entire park and all that is available to be observed is very significant. Having so much available for little to no cost is amazing. Preserve and ---- the shoreline of Lake Superior. Learning about our history, appreciating the natural beauty, learning how to preserve it for future generations. Preserving the shoreline. Preserving an irreplaceable natural wonder, unique to this area of the nation! ----. Natural historical preservation. The cliffs and dunes are land forms and ecosystems not readily found in our country.  They are more easily accessible than western parks, so more generations are likely to see them and protect them.  Education of the young is paramount to the park system. Beautiful scenery, Naval History. Great boat trip, family really enjoyed."
99,Death Valley NP,DEVA,"Public enjoyment; it's wilderness and shared heritage for the future. Preserving a beautiful and natural wonder for future generations to enjoy. It is a national treasure. Unique geology and eco system.  History of the area. Geologic and eco system diversity.  American history. It's beauty, diversity and our ability to preserve this gift. We experienced seeing miraculous beauty in wild flowers in a dead environment.  there is amazing geology and interesting national history. Spectacular desert scenery, historical significance of mining operations, diverse eco system, extra ordinary geology. History and safe haven from cross development and exploration of the natural wild. Death Valley Nat'l Pk preserves a very special wild even which needs to be kept available to all. Pioneer Spirit-the wonders of the earth.  The healing aspect of nature. Uniqueness, natural beauty. It's a strange moon like experience.  There is nothing else like it in the U.S. To protect wildlife that lives and grows in the desert environment. Extremely significant!  We must protect  our national beauty for all future generations! The desert, rock exposure and desert plants-flowers. To educate people of it's ----, untouched beauty and the need to conserve it. It is unique and starkly beautiful. Home of the lowest point in N. America. Variety of landslope; history; variety of this type of landscape; quiet, open space; night sky. It's unusual natural features. Geological wonders. The history of the area is amazing and the beauty of it was beyond expectations. Death Valley is totally unique.  There is no other place in the U.S. like it. Amazing natural features-badlands, sand dunes, salt flats, canyons, mountains, etc.-all in relatively small area of the world. Geologic and historical significance, primary significance, and environmentally. It is unique! It is a very unusual landscape that cannot be found anywhere else in the US. Beautiful geological features, fascinating mineral features. The beautiful mountain range-color, shape and site. The unique geography and wildlife and flora. Amazing geography of the park, sand dunes, the super bloom of wild flower. Historical values, amazing that people would travel thru here and build business. The flowers. Geology of the area. Unspoiled landscape. Historical, along with unique geology. Many elements in one spot. Education. A unique gift for the eyes, with so many amazing micro climates. Absolutely amazing, teaches as as a nation to be humble and appreciate our nation. Extreme. Amazing ----. Appreciate diversity of natural surroundings. Geology and biodiversity. Spiritual experience. This area needed to be preserved geological/historical significance could have been another Las Vegas. Open space. Learning about history and nature, having access to beautiful scenery. Death Valley (1 OF A KIND).  Plan to visit as many as we can this year. Magnificent, unexcused desert beauty and unique features like Racetrack and ---- water. Extremely significant. I've never seen anything like it. Unique geography, beautiful ----. Spectacular natural phenomenon that should be displayed and protected. Preservation at the unique features at geo area landscape. Hot place below sea level, beautiful mountains and colors. It is the lowest spot in North America. Crucial. Preservation of an interesting landscape also significant at lowest sea level. The landscape, beauty, nature, animals. Educational and awe inspiring. Lowest/hottest place. Lowest hottest. Basic geological knowledge. Just the ---- at ---- peak. It's heart. Natural beauty-opportunity to experience to the desert in its many forms so many ----. Unique ecosystem, diversity of nature. Opportunity to experience outback, ---- wilderness. Geology; ---- history. History and climate, character of park. Nation's treasure. Shows national extremes and a wide range of beauty. Unique desert area to preserve. Preservation of wilderness and natural resources. A crucial part of our natural and cultural history. Topography not found elsewhere, loved the sand dunes and canyons. The way the rocks were formed out of the ground and the erosion that gives it it's shapes. Very high importance. It's uniqueness. Nature-wonders. The unique geography. It's significance is in it's beauty as geological landscape and natural ----. Wilderness. Geologic uniqueness of death valley number 1 and cultural history number 2. A unique world resource. It preserves the geology, flora, fauna, and history of the peoples who lived and traversed this part of the world. Unique geology and weather. The dunes and the wildflowers when they bloom! Historical-gives concrete images as to the hard trips while coming to California.  Scenic-beautiful, desert surrounded by mountains. Natural contrasting beauty, especially this time of year. Maybe a paved bike path would make it safer for bicyclists and vehicles. It's important to keep wild places wild and preserve the ecology and history of these places. People need access to nature to understand the need to preserve it. Uniqueness ---- terrain ----, quiet. It's a beautiful and diverse area with a rich history. Geologic and natural history and history of human use. The preservation of a thing of beauty. The topography and climate are very different than the rest of our country.  Shows how it affected ----. The wide openness and variety in this beautiful place. Fascinating area-good variety of area to visit featuring different aspects of park."
100,Fort Vancouver NHS,FOVA,"Good. Importance of Dr. John and because of his worth with early american settlers.  War effort. It's aviation history. Acting ""New York"" of the West, had large impact on development of O. Territory. Keep up your great work and sharing our great history. Great, glad we have this here in Vancouver. Everything. Recollection of our ancestors sacrifices for future generations. Signifies the beginning of America. It's very significant due to it being one of the first settlements in the P.N.W.! History. A great history lesson. Fort Yeet Yeet Ayou beast El Fuego. Historical. Very important. The blacksmith was fantastic! This is a ---- at resource in an important ---- with ---- ----. Historical. To teach people about history! Yes, great educational points. The Hudson Bay province and influence alone is enough, but all the military periods are extremely important as well. Vancouver history! History. 1800s version of New York City, Rome, Paris and London combined. Early history of Columbia River and settlement."
101,Fort Stanwix NM,FOST,"History of early America. To preserve our Revolutionary War history and teach about our role in the wars and politics of that time. Fort was amazing.  Learned a lot and had a great time.  Park Rangers were amazing. People need to keep the history of our country close to their hearts and preserve our heritage. Site of important Revolutionary War standoff.  Site of different cultures coming together. It is a wonderful compilation of pre/post colonial ""America"" and a joy to attend.  Also, a great picture of upstate New York. Great historic park located in the city's center.  Shows the role Rome, NY played in the revolutionary war. It is important to the history of this area, Americans and American Indians.  Very interesting. To teach children and adults about the history of our nation, and to learn about our national ideals. Ft. Steinwick very, very important to keep our history alive. History of the fort, the uncensored TRUTH. American history and preservation of artifacts. Formative years of our nation. Learning how difficult it was to become a new country, from natives to the king, battling both sides and ourselves. Not to forget what happened. Shows the trials and frustrations of all people (Rebels-Indians ---- ---- went through to settle area. People hid here during a war. Preserving history is always important. It brings the past back to life.  We were very impressed with the effort made to reconstruct this park.  Mighty impressive feat!  Absolutely essential to help keep the past ""alive."" Preserve history and heritage of new world frontier. Good reference for early 18th century living. Part of history, especially in New York state. Two wars. The park will be a reminder to us that our ancestors fought for the freedom we are now enjoying. Fighting for our rights. Reminds all of us about the origins and controversies of our founding years as a Nation. Historical in nature of Revolutionary War. To help understand our history. It explains Rome's significant location for transportation and commerce in Fur Trading days, Erie Canal days, ---- ---- U.S. Its an important part of American history. Very significant.  Its history! An extremely important reminder of a foundational period for our nation.  Culture and differences were much more prominent. Part of the birth of our nation. NOT forget our past history and educate future generation. This park represents the spirit of independence and freedom that founded our nation. It was a part of our March to Independence as well as the settlement and protection of the Northwest terr. Study of fort battle technique and fort structure excellent. The history. Wonderful opportunity to see our national history!  So glad Ft. Stanwix was ""rebuilt"" 40 years ago.  Wonderful for future generations! The revolution and our Freedom, the history is awesome. History of Revolutionary War. Shows the creation of relationships between nations and different people.  Necessary to understand the conflicts between British and colonies. It helps to preserve the fundamental history of our country. Provide knowledge of life in a fort during the Revolutionary War and events during and leading up to war. Important fort and tactical position in the war.  Set tone for inter-Indian relations in the area for decades to come. Preserves Northern American history. Very historic. Expansion of commerce and settlements. It was a staging point in two wars and set the tone for America's dealings with Native Americans. I always wish they didn't do the urban renewal.  Was not happy when fort was built, but it is a nice place now. The winning of the Revolution stopping ----. Critical importance in French and Indian War and the American Revolution.  Without Ft. Stanwix and the brave militia, we would have lost in 1777! Site of major happenings in American Revolution. Beginning of our country and part of how that happened. It details life in the late 1700's and the details of many of the early wars. It tells the story of how the United States came to be. Great to keep our history alive-from past we can see out future. It shows a fort from the French and Indian war and a fort that help protect freedom in the Revolutionary war. Preserves our heritage and history the relationship between colonists and Native Americans. Early stages of American Revolution and part of the ---- of Indians when America gained independence. Great way for kids to see and experience history. Highlight the importance of the Rev. War and the ---- Empire. Historic value. To learn about the history of revolution soldiers and forts. Under estimated. Very significant.  I'm interested in the French and Indian war, so I appreciate this fort being available and all the information. Aided significantly in ---- the American Revolution. A testament to the hardship and fortitude need to start America. Showcases the Indian and French British war very effectively. The birth of our country the settlement and freedom from England. Very important! Great!  Learned so much more! First time an American flag flew before the enemy in battle. Was a major Route East - West. History. Stage set for victories of Saratoga and thus French open alliance with U.S. and eventual victory against GB. Parking signs poor drove around twice thought parking area was for buses.  Handicap access doors great (1 sticks). Employee friendly and excellent place to see very ----. Local history and stories of the Revolutionary War. ---- History. Remind/teach ---- importance of area in national ----. Tells part of the story of the revolutionary War. Also tells story of relations between Indians and ---- and among the six nations. It was used as a station to control the ways of the water. Part of our history. ---- It presents an amazing physical representation of the star-shape fort style of common use, without which no study of American history can be complete.  It is our history. Amazing interactive history lesson Inestimable. Preserves and tell important story of our history.  Extremely important to preserve this for future generations. To help develop a nuance view of our emergence as a nation in place of simplistic indoctrination. Yes.  Was great to learn history. Very important. Historical. Taught me some history I had no idea about-outstanding. The effort sacrifice of our forebearer. Our entire US history hinged upon this site. Battle that took place during the American Revolution. Learning. Role in disrupting British attacks on the Mohawk Valley during revolution 1777. To learn of our history. Very significant. History is underappreciated. The fort was an important part of the Revolutionary ---- America. Capital site/fort in French and Indian War key/crucial site in Revolutionary War. Excellent explanation and demonstration of colonial frontier, native, and revolutionary history and events and culture. Major factors in the expansion and freedom of our nation. Our history as a nation. Well thought out. Glad to have the opportunity. History and to be safe from the **** British. It is important to know where we came from. It was a great opportunity to teach my children about the Revolutionary War and Colonial lifestyle. To educate the public.  Just that it was very educational. It is a wonderful learning experience for children studying American history.  I found it fascinating too! Pivotal point in the Revolutionary War. Excellent.  The park service needs to do more regarding the restoration of historic sites! Our freedom. Revolutionary War history. Fort used during French and Indian War. To educate people about our history in a fun and exciting way! I'm a Canadian visitor, and am always curious about our neighbors to the south. Development of our country. Look back on life then; to give Americans a deeper understanding of the actions that Allowed America to win the Revolutionary War. Revolutionary War history. National Park tells the story of how our nation came to be and the rangers here have incredible knowledge to tell the story, giving visitors the significance of the fort. Importance of battle in Revolutionary War. Understanding that Indians took both sides-Americans and British. It gives an insight to what it was like living in the time of American Revolution.  Both military and civilian. Part of US history in various wars."
102,San Juan Island NHP,SAJH,"History of acquiring the San Juan Island for the USA. Unspoiled seashore, abundance of wildlife, historical significance, other natural areas. Very interesting piece of our country's history.  We all enjoyed learning about the story of the pig and how the dispute was resolved. To teach our children that wars can be fixed without guns. The interesting history of a peaceful resolution to a conflict/war-model for today. It was a good representation of the era. To remind us of events that occurred to ensure the freedom of our Country. Explains important parts of history in the making of how the island came to be. It was great to be able to show and teach our kids about how our national border was established. Our history with England. The beauty! 1. The establishment of the boundaries of the U.S..  2. The ability to settle disputes peacefully. A wonderful depiction of a historical event that a lot of people aren't aware of!  Excellent education, beautiful park! To show history to my grandkids. Somewhat important for the area. Only international war on US soil. Focuses on historical relations between Great Britain and US.  Also provides prospective on human development of San Juan Islands. Holds as an exhibit that boundary disputes can be resolved in a civilized way. It shows the link between English and American competition for the area. Interesting history.  Not well known until visiting the park. Historic and natural preservation. Historical view point of English vs. American camps.  Very well maintained.  English camp wins! The history and legacy of the park. History of era during Pig War-could be expanded to cover more landscape and manscape... i.e., prairie, native American. Historic-story of British/American past in area. That wars can be won without people dying. War about a pig. No war talked it out. Founding of PNW. The peaceful transition to full US establishment. It is significant.  America was formed by perseverance, hardwork and negotiation as well as being willing to fight if necessary. Dispute for ownership settled here, no war needed.  Peaceful arbitration. Emphasizes the service and independence of our military and native from the English. As ---- out part of colonial era, v. important.  But VERY happy to see the acknowledgement of indigenous people and totem here.  More info please! Demonstrating the conflicts of Brits and Americans to gain control of the island. War Avoidance. Significant as it tells the history of how the US attained the San Juan's-very interesting. I think USA did well in the Oregon dispute! Learning history of the area. ---- Historic nature and use of Arbitration to resolve an issue. Historical and factual. Pig War movie great. Valuable learning tool. Great story of a war averted-now to English camp. Aug.  Helpful great volunteer Gurdo.  Aug. 10. Beautiful nature love the story of ""Pig War"" and its lesson about being cool about uncertainty. Education about the camp and living areas. History between Great Britain and US after curl war-avoided war. Military encampments preserved. Important to our history. Preserving history and result of arbitration vs. war. Preserving our nations history small El Louis historical events. That disputes could be decided peacefully. Learn history of our country. It part of the history of the NW part of US. Very important. Dispute between British and America for island and life of soldiers. The history and the protection of the land from commercial development. Its significant because it describes a bit of history where diplomacy solved a problem rather than was. Peace is possible! Very much-interesting-thank you. Being so close to Canada once shared with U.K. Historical significance. Historical significance. It is fascinating to see national interests and state power expressed in such a remote location. Nice to have recognition for our only war settled without any one dying. Strength between our oldest ----! We appreciated the ---- ---- history of islands. Great story, happy ending! To learn our history. I think it's an important and very interesting part of our history. Disputes can be settled without war. The history lesson. Excellent. If D. Trump had been President in 1800's we'd probably still be at war with Great Britain. Location, nature and history. History of American and Canadian (British) relations and value and diplomacy. It tells visitors about an even that could have ended in blood shed but was peacefully resolved and reveals the best and quicker side of our ---- history. All parks play a significant part in preserving our environment and education. History, culture, natural history. Pig war and only one to come about without an actual war. Yes, significant to island. History of American/English military cohabitation. Critical part of history. History and nature. History-superior beauty of area. Really gorgeous! This parks unique ---- ----. History of San Juan island. The Pig War. Pig War, it is part of U.S., which is important to all Americans. Very strong.  How boundary was formed with Canada. Reminder of borders, competing nations and the tenuous state of the fledgling U.S..  Today our borders seem obvious, but we shouldn't take them for granted! The history of the island and how it became part of U.S.. History, biology, marine biology-fun views. Very important. I don't know. History. History. History. War can be avoided through arbitration. It is a place where boundaries were peacefully negotiated. This is a beautiful and very interesting historical site!  Thank you! First time here enjoyed the history! High. San Juan Island history, arbitration avoiding war. The near war with England for 3rd time. Great. Explains and honors a certain time in history between USA and UK. This park reminds locals and visitors of the history of the PNW.  It adds a useful and informative preservence to the region. Arbitration and peaceful conflict resolution, UK-US relations. To learn our history. Very important historical and national significance.  Please keep it maintained just as it is. Absolutely! 1. Native Americans and first nation story.  2. Pig War period.  3. Present day. A grand piece of American history! Huge! Learning about a forgotten history. Nice to learn about arbitration. NW border significance. Our parks are our best examples of our culture and heritage. Peaceful resolution to conflict. Pig War history. The grounds are beautiful and the employees were very helpful and informative. Because it is part of our history and we got the San Juan's ---- of it."
103,National Capital Parks-East,NACE,"To have many ---- ---- and provide a neighborhood gathering place. It is close to the capitol. Grateful for it's location bathroom were not clean and were in disrepair.  Sad... The acknowledgement and preservation of African American contributions. Public availability and opportunity for all. Honoring Mary McLeod Bethune. History, knowledge, understanding. As a young African-American male, coming to this park learning about black women's contributions to this country is a wonderful thing.  More of our citizens need to know this history. This park gives information of a woman who was part of a movement larger than herself.  All people should know of her contributions. To honor Abraham Lincoln and Mary Bethune. To remind the new generation of the importance of what a good example is (Mary ----) and what ---- can person bring ----. Celebrate freedom, equality, and civil rights. Accomplishments of a black woman in the midst of the civil rights era. Historic value for all people.  The accomplishments of A. D.. NCNW-Cleveland section member. To bring awareness to African-American history. Celebration and appreciation of Mary McLeod Bethune. Honors Lincoln and Mary McLeod Bethune. Black history. Wildlife and natural preservation.  Save the trees. It is a servicing the purpose for the people. To serve the recreational purpose of the people. I feel it's very important because the people who live in this area has very little ----. Freedom, peace of mind, landmark of wash. DC. Because of the civil war. Social development and cultural awareness. Information about overcoming slavery. Important American political thinker. Black leader and black man who stood up for our rights. Educate others on Frederick Douglass and preserve the home. Frederick Douglass was a major key player in history-preserving his house is valuable. The preservation of the house. To learn about and experience African-American history.  The tour guide was excellent. Very important.  Especially its connection to the ending of slavery. Historical significance is paramount to the education of our culture! American hero that deserves to be recognized. Frederick Douglass was an important advocate of Civil Rights. Historical. It is ---- ---- of Douglas's contribution to ----. Frederick Douglas was an important man and everyone should know about his contribution. Learning about the history of slavery and Frederick Douglas. Very good-really A+ honoring the life and accomplishments of Douglass, WONDERFUL to walk in his own home! This site plays a great part in telling America's history, which is often forgotten. Frederick Douglass is important abolitionist, help to end slavery. It is an excellent depiction of Mr. Douglass life. Wonder within the city. A real gem for a special purpose. Very significant, unique place.  A treasure. Lovely green space in the middle of a so much beauty. Beauty of nature! Wildlife nature conservatory.  Park of unique quality. Cultural awareness and social development. Public service for people to have fun with family and friends free of cost. Community involvement. Hope. Very happy. Gives history of civil war fortification. Protecting Washington. ---- ---- the Nation ----. Summer concert ----. I will support CW VW saying over. Unity in community. History of Civil War ---- gives insights to current ----. This is my first visit and I have yet to get into the Park property. I have not idea. All was kept all OK. Any thing more ---- is needing. It's the site of a Civil War Battle. It shows the different ways used to protect DC. Natural ---- ----. Recreation for the family. Extremely important. Very great historical significance, but the fort is not well maintained and exhibits are poor.  I wish this park was better surated. Defend Washington DC. It's scenic and historic a calm within a bustling area. That it was used as a fort. Civil war and 1812 defenses story. To learn about me history. African American history, informative. Good camping sites for scouts. We are very grateful for this beautiful park in the midst of the city and easy access to our nation's capital. The park has the Mary McLeod Bethunes Statue.  A beautiful gesture of appreciation to a black female education. Preservation of natural beauty for future generations. Lots of out-of-state scouts use it as a base for exploring DC. Proximity to major cities.  A bit of an escape between DC and Baltimore. Close to D.C..  Greenbelt historic area. Keeping green/tree areas to combat climate change and global warming. For people to enjoy the beauty of nature!"
104,New Bedford Whaling NHP,NEBE,"New Bedford Whaling was vital to the development of the nation and the park does a great job linking our cultural past, present, and future. The significance of the 19th century whaling industry. Shouldn't have to pay admittance to museum just to use research library to access a book that belonged to my great-grand father.  Not the case when ---- look as a child!!! Awareness of whaling industry, history. Whaling history. 0 Whaling heritage/commerce in the 1800's. 100 years of whaling history and significant to 18th century Americans. Preservation of Whaling history. History of whaling, U.S. industry and seafaring. Very important historically and culturally. Excellent overview of whaling and ---- Bedford. Value to the diverse history and population of this area. The historical significance of a whaling community. Whaling. Preserving a glimpse of life in the 1800s (whaling, abolition, etc.) and comparing it to today. To enhance the knowledge of the whaling industry once here. New Bedford's 19th C importance re: business and social makeup. Yes.  This is an essential part of our nation's history.  A must see/do for all. Very significant.  A jewel for all. Whaling history, key history of abolition. Unknown part of the nation's history. Whaling industry-New England's Heritage. Preserve the architectural and historical importance of the whaling industry in American history. The whaling industry from a historical perspective. Our history. Learn from history ---- whaling financial ---- ----- disaster. Great. History of whaling. Keeping history alive. Learning about history and industry. Learning about the movement of slavery north and free slaves related to New Bedford.  Not all New England the same, but profited. Moby Dick has always been my favorite movie so this is special to me. New Bedford history in whaling and in the underground railroad both important historical value.  RJD House Fascinating!  Good talk by curator. Our Whaling Heritage the ---- of ---- and ----. Preservation of significant historical information and area. Tells the story about a very important phase of American industry and culture. To tell the history of N.E. Whaling is vital to our American Heritage and future. Understanding intersection of society and natural resources and the lasting impact of that. Understanding the whaling industry and impact on economy. New England Heritage. That it is one of few Urban parks. History of our country that has not changed! The history of the area is significant because it explains the importance and impact of both whaling and the social climate here in the 1800s. It shows the people's fight for freedom and their ---- to make a living. Preserving the history of the whaling industry and its cultural implications. The historic significance of New Bedford as a rich and influential port and city. Whaling history. Historic value-whaling history, underground railroad. This park in a great ---- to the ---- new Bedford area. He needs a raise. Ranger Andy and Stan. To remember the great influence of ---- as a ---- industry of New England. Very. An important part of history of the N.East. I was particularly impressed with the ---- we ---- on the underground railway. Huge ---- in international economy and local one 2 First example of true diversity of cultures co-operating! Historical whaling operations/historical methods of whaling. ---- whale oil, ---- whale bove, products. Whaling. Shows the early building of a park city and immigration of various nation's people as ----. Surprising to find out a lot racial relations and other nationalities-I'm a history major. This is an historical and important location. Very ---- and ---- Whaling industry was important part of US history. I knew nothing. Now I do. Thanks. Yes, if we don't honor our past we will not have a future. Whaling; Abolition, Black, ---- history. Whaling history and culture. To Whaling and the 17th and 19th Century. To educate the public about the historic role of New Bedford in the Whaling Industry the anti slavery movement and the artist ----. History of walking development of ---- ---- town/city. Very interesting and informative material about the whaling industry and it's importance in American life until pretty recently. History awesome place. Historical monument to an important part of New England history. Attended walk tour group, but I enjoy my visits to National Parks. History of whaling industry, underground railroad, Quakers-how these factors influenced/changed the nation's history. Enjoyed opportunity to learn about this important industry.  did not have enough time to see all I would like to have seen.  Hope to return. Survival and conveniences, technology before petroleum products. The same. Economic info of early New England insight into immigration into the area, including African-American slaves seeking freedom. Historical. It show how and why New Bedford grew as it did, and how the Whaling Industry was so influential, along with its challenges. Original Whaling ---- in US. Fabulous historical items.  Everything you need to know about whaling-If you can stand for 3 hrs.  Why not put a bench in each area. 1) Wealthiest City in the World at one time due to whaling and (the economy).  2) History of energy (lighting). Portrays a significant era of US history and growth during the earliest years. Learning of the importance of whaling in New England. Very good!  People like me may be unaware of the vast importance Whaling had on life of early USA. Most important. Whale oil industry in 19th century. To learn about the Whaling Industry that built up New Bedford. Preservation and communication of key history. History of whaling in the area was excellent. Unique part of our nation's history and development. Also, a special event connecting native peoples and their cultures/achievements. Explains the history of the ---- industry in America and preserves buildings from early American history. Historically important.  Now Bedford was very important for growth and development in the new U.S. and the world. It is an important piece of the cultural history of the area and the nation. Very interesting preservation on Whaling history. History of Whaling as commerce. The Delano organized New Bedford NP is equivalent to the Rockefeller organized Willamsburg, VA facility. Story of whaling and history of New Bedford including it's preservation of that history. It offers tours, movies, programs of interest to young and old, very pleasant rangers every time I've been here. Learning about whaling and textile industry and culture of New Bedford. Very important industry (whaling) in the early history of the country. Whaling history, role of Quakers in whaling and ---- ----, varied ethnic and religious groups working and living together.  Role of African Americans during abolition and civil war. To highlight an undervalued part of our nations past. As an urban nat. park, it help explain the history of the area. Whaling industry and underground railroad. Good! Culture that founded the city and the surrounding areas. It talked about the whaling industry and its effects. Reminder of importance of whaling industry to U.S. history; glimpse into lifestyles of the time; affirmation of historical importance of New Bedford. Substantial about need for federal support of local ---- of historical and economic importance. Wonderful whaling history. Whaling. Great historical value. Explains the history of New Bedford's way of life, beginning at its inception. The growth of prosperity from Whaling Enterprise and the business of the Northeast. Vitally important part of our history. To learn about the whaling industry. The Whaling Industry was incredibly important to the U.S. in Boat-Building, growth of trade, and growth of wealth.  New Bedford was the heart. Important whaling port long ago. Film old fat guys-some actors were unrealistic. The history of Whaling and the wide representation of different ethnic groups in it-helps to demonstrate the complex history and ---- ----. Biggest location of Whaling Industry and later grew to a very diverse population because of variety of places from which the workers came. The importance of Whaling to commerce. It tells the story of ""lighting"" America before crude oil was used.  Important history. It is not your traditional national park.  The park exists throughout the town, yet tours only run twice a day. To carry on the history of the significance of New Bedford whaling.  ---- was good. The history of whaling and underground RR are part of U.S. history. NBW NHP portrays and era that starkly shows the costs and benefits of human endeavor.  It provides MUCH food for thought."
105,Manzanar NHS,MANZ,"Opportunity to review our nations past.  Not always pleasant but good to see. Very eye-opening, a reminder of a terrible part of our history. World War II history. The motorcyclists, the sandy roads were not the best especially when we carry a lot of gear (very top heavy). We need to be alert not to be governed by fear and prejudice. Remembrance of how our nation took the necessary action to preserve our defense. It is a reminder of the mistakes, we have made and how to carry ourselves in the future. Huge. Absolutely.  Amazing display for us to remember and project on today's problems. To learn from past mistakes so that we don't repeat them.  To protect constitutional rights. Don't forget history. Hope we do not repeat history. It exposes a sad part of our history and does an excellent job of capturing that moment in time. Learn from our mistakes-history is repeating.  Terrible treatment of Americans based on ethnicity did not make America great. Remember relocation of Japanese. This site reminds us how fragile our constitution is, and how we must always be vigilant in protecting our freedoms. To educate the younger generation! Great history. I was barely 11 on 12/7/41.  Since then I've learned ---- about ""----"" after happenings.  Took H.S. student to ----. Remembrance and information. So that American's won't forget how quickly government can get out of hand. To never let people forget and understand the history behind ----. Educate-being from the U.K. I had never heard of this happening. A remembrance of when democracy broke down in the US due to prejudice and a reminder not to let it happen again ---- in today's times with ---- American etc. Don't make same mistake. History! It is a token payment for the great injustice done to Japanese Americans during WWII. Remembering American history. Part of American history. To help people learn and to help remember. Not repeat bad history. ---- A reminder that every single American needs to see! How best intentions may be a disaster to others. Never again-America show cases its violation of our our constitution. Reminder of justice (in this case lack of justice) We need to abide by constitution. This has a huge significance both for a part of our history and also connected to current events. It is a part of history that should never be forgotten. To preserve our history. To understand freedom and how we need to protect it and not repeat the past. With the issues of treating immigrants as a threat, this site is essential. I've been waiting for a park service for ----. Internment of innocent people. An awareness of the past not to be repeated in the future. To memorialize my ancestors' struggles and perseverance during such difficult times. TO preserve the history that has taken place here. The unfair treatment of immigrants in this country. Historical-constitutional-raising of our national moral conscience. To preserve and tell the story of the very sad but important event of Japanese and Japanese-American internment during WWII. Important history! The ""mistake"" made during WWII. The National Park Service allows us to preserve our natural and cultural history. To give visitors the chance to be in a place of significant historical events-the restoration of the gardens, etc., was very inspiring and a good reminder of the amazing capacity of people to survive and create beauty out of loss and harsh conditions. To remember that no people should ever be imprisoned based solely on their ethnicity. Very much need to know so it will not be forgotten. Incredibly important.  The history should be known and never be forgotten or repeated. It provides historical value to teach about the past and prevent mistakes in the future and openness to other cultures. It reminds us how quickly we can revert to authoritarianism when we are afraid.  We must never forget E.O. 9066 and the 120K who were interned. This is a great monument to U.S. history.  Very informative museum. This is a part of our history that we should always remember so we do not repeat it. Remembering World War II and racism. Shows that the U.S. also maintained concentration camps. The park is an important reminder of the importance of upholding the fundamental values of our country. Extremely important in current political climate.  Most of these people were American citizens. Our history. It gives the opportunity to not only read, or listen, to the happenings of internment, but experience it. Very important reminder to not be led by fear of people's differences.  That America is an amazing country because of all its diversity. To make people aware of what happened so that it will not happen again.  So, please do not vote for Trump in November! Manzanar is extremely important.  It helps us remember that fear and tyranny can cause people to exhibit prejudice and undermine constitutionally guaranteed freedom. A reminder of how easy it is to lose our freedom based on fear in the name of security. To remember the past! Because it highlights one of the many examples of repression/violence instigated by this country (abroad, but also domestically). To remember the unjust internment of Japanese-Americans during WWII and educate the public so this WWII never happen again. Remembering the bigoted mistakes we made that we can avoid them in the future.  Seeing that we can always bring beauty and joy to our circumstances. To ensure Americans do not make the same mistake and violate the Constitution. Very important to remind us of this history. Very significant part of history. A vivid reminder of the catastrophic side effects of over-reacting and intolerance in moments of emergency. Always good to learn about history first-hand instead of from books. Tremendous significance.  America is simultaneously the greatest country in the world and worst country. History and education to prevent it happening again. Never forget this shameful past. Understanding American history. A great reminder of NOT repeating past mistakes. HUGE. Important period of history to remember. This park holds immense historical significance and provides insight to potentially affect future national decisions. Educate future generations. To remember a wrong, and to never rob Americans' freedom. Learning about the history of what happened to Japanese-Americans during WWII. A visceral reminder that our constitutional rights are not guaranteed without constant vigilance.  ""Freedom isn't free"" is an easy motto for those who do not understand the true cost.  MAJ. F.P. Taylor, USMA 78. It's important for my teenagers to know this history so it's not repeated. We need to learn from our history, so we do not repeat the atrocities and/or mistakes that have been made. To serve as a reminder of past wrongs and to prevent such from occurring again in the future. Learning from our past and moving forward. Japanese-American internment is an injustice that should not be forgotten. The park explains a human and constitutional tragedy.  Hopefully it is a lesson for our future. Education of WWII American history. These relocation centers are so wonderful to remember.  My grandfather was in ----, WY. As a nation, we have made mistakes.  We are choosing to learn from those mistakes and to learn from them.  It is a part of U.S. history that I am not proud of, but glad to learn about it. Ensures future generations never forget how easily government can take away individual citizen rights. It is important to remember what happened in the past. Learning about our American history.  Extremely important. Manzanar shows the mistake that was made when we shipped all of the people of Japanese ancestry to the desert.  Hopefully, we learn from history and do not repeat our mistakes. To ensure that the wrongs are not repeated through education. To remind us of the poor treatment of the Japanese people during WWII. Very important as a symbol of tolerance. Very important. We need to always be reminded not to let things like this happen-can't judge a group. We need to learn from the past and our mistakes. What happened here-and its ---- and cruelty-should be remembered and not repeated. To learn and teach history. The ability to learn about the treatment of the Japanese-Americans during World War II. Ties in what happened in the past with current issues that seem to be repeated.  Knowledge of this part of history is key to learning now to co-exist. Avoiding making small mistakes. Our history. Remembering history. Thank you. The wrongful doing of the U.S. government. To illustrate that a Democrat president interned people against his own constitution. To remember. To show the physical results of institutional racism.  A lesson that cannot be repeated. To understand, and not forget, an unfortunate chapter of our history as a nation. To teach about what America should and should not be. To better understand economical gain and those in power.  National imperialism and all races for. Extremely important reminder of a historically significant period during which our nation suffered and promoted suffering. A place to remember the mistakes of the past to ensure that the same mistakes are not repeated in the future. That it is still here and always improving! A reminder that fear and suspicion of ""others"" must constantly be guarded against as antitactical to what our nation believes in. For Japanese Americans, Americans, Japanese, other country people, it is needed. History. To recognize the rights of all our citizens and to respect each other, to not be quickly swayed by news, here say, but rather to hold freedom and truth superior. It is significant because it ---- in the process of becomes self aware of negative aspects in our history such as the internments. Those who don't learn from history, are doomed to repeat it. To educate visitors about Japanese interment at Manzanar. Very important, I think this aspect of our history is often overlooked and is extremely important to remember, especially given the current political situation. The internment of the Japanese. It helps to understand what happened here.  What was labeled as protection for the citizens interred here, wasn't evidence as needed in the rest of the US. This park serves as an ever important REMINDER of how a democracy can betray it's values when it succumbs to fear. Very good exhibit and friendly staff. Shows how we should not have treated Americans this should not be repeated. Everyone needs to visit this park so we do not repeat these mistakes.  First person in line should be Donald Trump. This is history we all need to remember and never allow again! Atrocities against Japanese/American, though understandable for war times. We see this possibly happening again today!  2016!  Illegal aliens from Mexico or other possible threats (Muslims). It shows how we as a country are not perfect and we never learn from our disgraceful massacres. It shows us that we care and have been human. That the constitution was ---- on many levels. To give us all a chance to reflect, be mindful and NOT DO it again. Extremely important, I taught middle school history and used Farewell to Manzanar in my classes.  I also was an Army brat. Never forget how fear, racism and intolerance can so easily happen violate our constitution. This monument is and always will be a necessary reminder of our history, including the negative elements there of. The facility is an important part of American history. To remember the American Japanese who lived here. Extremely important for everyone to visit and learn from. It is a reminder to all of us to judge people as individuals, in our diverse, current political climate, all voters should be aware of the issues presented at Manzanar. It is a significant piece of US history (Manzanar), which I hope to never see repeated, but it is worrisome in 2016 with the talk of what to do with illegal immigrants. Teaches about an important and shameful event in US history. Truth!  About a wrong. Important history of racism in America. This park is here to tell the stories of those that were relocated here during WWII. To remind people how important it is to elect officials who don't govern with fear. A permanent reminder of the importance of welcoming and including everyone to preserve all of our fundamental freedoms. Crucial that this story be preserved. Historic fact we need to remember. Historical knowledge. Incredibly important. It highlights a dark part of our history and teaches the dangers that result from political turmoil, as well as the endurance of people faced with aversion. It is critical for US citizens to have the opportunity to learn and experience all the aspects of our history, the good and the bad. It is very important to learn about history so past mistakes are not repeated. Providing information how Japanese were treated during WWII. Remberance of a piece of history that never should have happened. Remembrance of history to learn from the choices of the past. Reminding Americans of the dangers of persecution of an entire group because of the actions of a few. The message is timeless. This is an event that we must never forget. To remember what we did to our citizens. To see what really happened. We need to know about this!  Those who ignore history are doomed to repeat it. Immense!  We cannot forget especially in light of today's political environment of division and ignorance=Trump. The apology and shame of a mistake made to the Japanese people living in the US. Racial profiling has a long history, not just in America.  It continues today.  Japanese detention in WWII was a crime against humanity. Historical. It played a role in how the US reached after Pearl Harbor but also insight on how not to repeat history. Great historic value in learning from past mistakes. History and culture. History and learning not to repeat mistakes. History is very important for this generation and generations to come. Never forget. No ones freedom should be violated.  We are all created equal and it is great to show when freedom is lost. Not to repeat this again. This site holds great historical significance due to it's ability to educate others on past events to prevent future occurrences. To learn from the mistakes we made as a country in the past. To never let this happen again. To remember those who played a significant part in shaping US history. To remind us the hardships our ancestors went through and how they bounced back without complaining. We should never forget. To remember and honor our history.  Too learn and never forget. One of our most enduring examples of how easily liberty is lost.  Especially pertinent this year! This Park is important as a grim reminder of what is possible. Cultural awareness and historical significance and preservation. Memory of Injustice. Highly important for all Americans to understand experience of 110,000 (----) Japanese Americans. Don't violate Constitutional Rights.  (I was born in a ---- Camp (?)). Important history. Our involvement in the War and how we can learn from the actions we've taken during times of War. Remembering American values even in the face of fear. History. It educates not just your youth, but everybody on our history. It's great, part of the history of the nation. That we would not forget that we are capable of horrible things too. Very important because of what the USA did to the USA citizens of Japanese heritage. Keeps us grounded in our quickness to judge an entire ethnic group.  Very thought provoking. A reminder that we are a democracy, a country that SHOULD honor people of color, of varied religions and beliefs. For understanding the different ---- of Japanese and American and history background. It teaches us about history and the ---- our ancestors went thru to keep us safe weather right or wrong. To remember that our national history is not perfect and to motivate us towards a better society. Lot's make sure such mistakes are NEVER done again. It reminds us that the constitution is only valuable when it is upheld by the people. Education so as to prevent the repetition of past wrong and to honor those. Who were mistreated. Everything is great here. A good reminder to protect our rights and not repeat the past. A horrible mistake not to be forgotten. Where to start! This is an incredibly important and relevant part of US history! Hopefully we won't repeat the past in our near future. To make citizens aware that freedom is a precious thing that must be protected. That our government and ---- should be questioned. To preserve the stories of our past in order to help us recognize similar patterns in our present and better current judge the value of our proposed actions-reactions for ---- Understanding the past and how we as a ---- have treated people unfairly helps us to avoid these mistakes in the future. What should be the tombstone of racism in our country serves as an important morning beacon of the danger of being blinded by racism during hype and hysteria. A sad time in our history is never forgotten. This park is one of many that tell a small part of the historic tapestry of our country. The NPS tells a story like no other organization in the world. Very significant. Racism and WW2. To remember the wrongs of our past so we don't repeat them. To remind us of what we did and how easily it could happen again. Its significance is to raise awareness about a dark time in American history that many of us might not know much about. Shows are mistakes, and years later a President that had the compassion to ---- it. This is an important part of our history that all Americans should understand.  History repeats itself. Learning from our mistakes. Honors the experience of Japanese Citizens and immigrants who were deprived of their rights-helps us to remember our terrible mistakes in the hopes we don't repeat them. This is a reminder of our Nation's mistakes and what we can do to avoid a history repeat. For me the National significance of this Park is more to give respect to all the bad things happen.  Is a good way to say sorry and historical sake. Historical and cultural awareness. It serves as a reminder of injustices the U.S. perpetrated on its own citizens.  It also serves as a reminder of the beauty and strength, humility and persevere of the Japanese American citizens in the face of adversity. Very important historical information for what our Country is going through now. It is a reminder that civil liberties are easily lost during difficult times. To learn about the history and the effects of people in the past and present. To show the mistakes that can be made. The historic reminder of racism and heroism should always be emphasized, especially TODAY! Dark page in U.S. history that we need to remember. Historical lesson to be learned.  This should NEVER happen again. Very dark chapter in our history, and must never be forgotten. While here, overheard a visitor imply that concentration camps were justified.  I could hope that he read all material and changed his mind. High. Americans need to be aware of the atrocities to Japanese-American citizens.  So many white friends never aware of this history at all. Sad, but don't forget in the future so we don't repeat. To remind all Americans of injustice done to Japanese-Americans and discrimination against ethnicity. Every citizen of the U.S. should learn about this part of history and work hard for this not to happen again. To warn against the dangers of prejudice.  To show America is not perfect and history is complicated.  To show resilience and patriotism of Japanese-Americans. It documents the experience of Japanese-Americans during WWII in the U.S.. It's important for people to know that an entire community of Japanese were ripped away from their normal way of life, even though they were citizens of the United State's of America.  I hope this never happens again! Let us never forget the injustice to our fellow citizens. Historical education unknown to most Americans. This park is an acknowledgement and a reminder that our system of justice must be upheld by all of us. To remind us that all people have inherent worth. To demonize others is morally wrong."
106,Adams NHP,ADAM,"Preserved ---- and ---- birthplace. Significant history. It is a preservation of the ideas and way of life of John Adams and his family, and a preservation of colonial history and way of life. Adds texture and understanding to one of founding fathers and making John Adams human and not just oil painting. Birthplace and home of 2 Presidents. Very important; significant contributes to our country's history. Learn more about a family dedicated to the establishment of our country. It shows the history of a family who made a difference in the establishment of the nation. Learn about Adams history. Founding fathers! John Adams, baby! Upholding the ---- and outstanding president and patriot. Part of important presidential history. Education on American ----. History of our nation. It is a wonderful way to learn more about the life of a man who helped create our country. Preservation and availability of early history. VERY important historical significance-well done! Our history-we all need to remember our history. The exquisite preservation of the early history the U.S. Home of our 2nd and 6th presidents who were strategic and valuable to our nation-so important! In depth information about Adams family. Presidential home. The Adam's contribution to our nation. John Adams were one of the best Presidents ---- the foundation of our country.  We also love Abigail. The Adams family was so important to early U.S. history-very cool to be able to see the three houses and library. Yes-very historical.  Need more local publicity for residents of MA. Presidential history and Revolutionary War/political history. Early history of USA and contributions of Adams family. Adams family:  their contributions to history. Adams was the voice of Congress and his house is well preserved. Preserving John Adams and his family ---- to the formation of this ---- is very significance. It was among the best park places I've been! A time to walk through history.  The contributions of one family over time, a reminder of our foundation and how and who helped ---- our country. Preservation of birthplace and homes of a founding father of our country, and subsequent generations of a political and influential American dynasty. Two US presidents lived here who shaped the country. Birth place of 2 presidents. Historical. Wonderful way to learn and understand American history-makes the Adams seem very real.  What an amazing family!  Makes me proud of my history as an American. Adams is under-rated as far as his work as a patriot in ----.  Served on 30-plus committees while the Declaration was being ---- on. It shows that people who changed the world don't always live/grow up in palaces. All the contributions provided by John Adams and John Quincey Adams. History of our nation. Founding father and family of integrity! HUGE! Appreciate our ""Founding Fathers""! The American experience/founding of our nature. Birthplace/residence of Adams family, library of a U.S. president, homes of founding father. Remembering the legacy and impact of the Adams family to American history. Without the Adams family the character of this nation would be very different. Commemorate two presidents of this country instrumental in it's founding and preservation. Adams Family. The historical value is the best part of this park. Acknowledging the ingenuity and influence of a Founding Father and his family members. Historical farming and living. For a foreigner a chance to learn previously unknown US history(I'm from Italy). Shows life in early years ----. John Adams home historical significance.  Precious artifacts held in area that is not temperature controlled, books and paintings. Opportunity to visit homes of two US presidents and learn about their lives. Better understanding of John Adams and John Quincy Adams and how they lived. So very important!  Homes of two Presidents and Presidential Library.  So well preserved.  I always bring my out of state visitors here. Home and birthplace of our second president. John Adams' home, so much important history, second president, farmer. This park is of significance to our national history.  I hope more people take advantage of the park. It is the birth place and houses of two presidents.  It was wonderful to learn more about them. History of American Revolution. This is the place of a wonderful president, who valued truth and knowledge. Great historical value. History. The Adams family helped lay the foundation of our nation. The fact that original furniture used by John and Abigail is still there is amazing, especially John's desk.  His work at that desk formed Massachusetts and the USA. The home of one of our founding fathers 2 Presidents and a dynasty of. Exactly what you have expressed.  We have no idea what was sacrificed for our present selection. Opportunity to learn about key persons in the founding of our country and it's early years. To educate about the significant impact and contribution of John Adams and the subsequent generations to the U.S. Nation. It includes the birthplaces and homes of two presidents.  Their history and events of their lives and their milieu are well presented. This park greatly enhances the public's ability to learn more about our second president and one of the greatest founders. Great, because of the lack of knowledge about the founding father (DWG)."
107,Central High School NHS,CHSC,"To never forget and show how we want and have changed as a country. Relations among citizens. Very important to remember our history! Excellent historical experience to better understand the injustice of segregation in the U.S. and the struggles of integration. High. Historical value of Brown vs. Brown.  Important aspect of public school education. Historically very significant. It gives the education to people who didn't know how bad nine students wanted an education. Continue to inspire our country and equality. Like the volunteers that answer questions and share stories. Americans need to know about the events that happened here.  It's vital to our history. Historical significance of integration of the public school system. The importance of learning about all that went into the Civil Rights Movement and properly educating w/facts not opinions. The Little Rock nine were a huge part of history. This is of great significance.  ---- a teacher, I'm teaching this at school. This was a very informative, powerful, a great place to visit and learn. High historical significance because of it's importance in the civil rights movement. To get the store out, regarding the local national site. Important aspect of recent history.  I found it highly significant to know it. Understanding of culture. This is an important part of our national story.  Very important. It reminds us of where we have come from so hopefully it will not be expected. Depiction of what African-Americans have dealt with. Very good, very educational tour was great.  (Guided)  Visitor center-very good. Historic. Tolerance. To bring forth our history and information we did not see in our history books. The history of Little Rock Nine. Historical significance to the civil rights movement and race relations. The continuation of the civil rights movement after Brown. This park is immensely valuable because it shares a very important story with the public about the struggles of the past that still continue today. Preserve the historical frame of reference for the culturally significant struggles in American history. It highlights the struggle of racial minorities to gain freedom and equal rights. To educate the public about the history of civil rights do ---- the stories of these brave kids and their support. A part of American history discovered! Civil Rights-finally! Desegration of Central HS. Yes, I learned a lot that I didn't know before.  Everyone needs to come here. Learning more about black history. Civil Rights.  ---- of Federal powers. Great! Being treated equally.  Equal Rights. Great historic value. The Federal Military intervention to desecrate schools. A very important moment in our Nation's history and human history. It was a major step in the fight for equal rights for ALL people, paving the way for true equality for all. Desegregation/racism. Great information. Heighten awareness of recent historical events.  To me better than Battlefield. It is wonderful to learn about recent times in past.  Jodi's Tour was awesome! Very important historic site. Civil Rights. Desegregation of schools-Civil Rights. Incredibly important to advancing racial equality in our country. The Little Rock 9 signifies our integration and truly embodying the freedom out country represents.  I am happy I came on the 4th of July weekend. Telling the story of Civil Rights and humanities those struggles. Every American needs to hear the story this park tells. The significance of this park is that discrimination can be fixed no matter what. Extremely a historically, morally ----. Historic significance-important in our future. It is a monument to a watershed movement in American history. Part of the story of Civil Rights. History-national and local. Acknowledging the significance of the desegregation of Central High School. An important reminder of a decisive time in our country's history. Awareness of our history of segregation. Civil Rights. Historical. It is a very important site preserving stories that should never be forgotten. It is very important to remember these events and being able to visit this site makes it come alive. Moving forward in a positive direction. Pioneering of integration in the south. The history of the integration of LR CHS and its impact on the local community and nation. Awesome. Education-to know our history. Excellent places for learning, exploration and adventure. History of Civil Rights, education about oppression and progress. It highlights the serious divide between black and white people in the years of my youth. The importance and struggle for integration of the nation's public school system. Allows us to learn from national history. History teaches as we will all leave from it. Keep remembering our faults. To inform and educate people about struggles that have shaped the country. Recognizes an important time in history.  Great sacrifices. Desegregation within all the nation for education. Value of history of civil rights-still needed. History and beauty. Good experience for our SO youth to see history like this preserved. Civil rights are extremely important. Desegregation, etc.. Learning about civil rights. Little Rock Central High School-generations' education. History and civil rights. The site of one of the most important events in our nation's racial history. Gives info beyond the brief history in a compact space and time.  Extremely educational and moving.  Everyone should see! It's a part of Arkansas's and the nation's history and should stay that way. Showing the bravery of young people and the importance of education. Brings recognition to issues facing our country, especially those of race. Civil rights movement. Promoting diversity. Very educational-provides info not all people will get from schooling. To learn about the Civil times. HUGE!!  Very personal stories! Civil rights movement began with Central High. Civil rights movement. Equal opportunity for all. This is significant because this is where it started. Very exciting,learned something new. History-remember. Inclusion in education-great resources. It is still here. Sit in motion integration among the races. Studying history hopefully guarantees that mistakes won't be repeated. Very good! I haven't to central and never got the history of the school until I got ----. History of integration. Historic moment in time-reinforced by current events. Very much. I am a teacher and very much appreciate the quality of the exhibits and information. Critical. Essential. All men/women/people in general all created equal. Civil rights. Is one of the most important Civil Rights locations in the U.S. It is one of several important representations of the Civil Rights era and it's events in the 20th century. Excellently displayed and ---- Teach an important part of individual actions in history and in discrimination. Civil rights. Integration. Excellent way for visitors to learn about the poor way AR handled the central HS integration situation. A step in the right direction for equality. Crucial especially in these times. Educate others about the disparity between those of race ---- gender disability. Educational equality! History of integration. Let the truth be known. To show people how much impact segregation had on our nation. Yes. Civil Right. How it affected integration in. We need to remember there is still work to do, the 9 stepped up and did hard stuff, we all need to continue doing what needs done. This city is significant, hence, so is the park. This is a wonderful opportunity to educate everyone about U.S. history. Preserve the memory and history of African-Americans' struggle and triumph in the nation.  It was in integral part of the American saga and challenges the notion of freedom, liberty and justice. Its significant in maintaining the history of the civil rights movement and educating people so that the same mistakes are not repeated. Historical and challenges the present. My family enjoyed itself.  We will come again. Very significant ---- in U.S. history. As a teacher this site is essential in reminding others that EVERYONE deserves an education. Fight for equality. Civil rights history-integration of educational facilities. To commemorate integration of schools in LR, AR. Highlights the (ongoing) struggle for civil rights. This park is extremely meaningful and a building block in our nation's growth as a community. To let us never forget our past mistakes and never repeat them. Preserving history and allowing a rich learning experience. Good to learn our history so we all can move forward together. History-learning to keep us from preventing. Important actually critical to know past history. Great history in and from one local area. To relate the awful history of the attempts to integrate Central High. Freedom of press is essential. A significant landmark to the civil rights movement. It is very important to understand the history of our country. To honor the Little Rock Nine and the importance of decentralizing the schools. It shows the importance of knowing where we've been and how far we've come, and in many ways we still have a way to go.  But we are getting there. A great exhibit, very informative!  I love all the books available. Everyone must hear and experience. It is a significant location in the story of the civil rights struggle and the march toward equality and social justice. Learn about segregation. I brought an educational of-grades 9-12 36 in our group. Race relations are a key to all people understanding each other.  The school was key in U.S. history. Reflect on our past to make the future better. To remember the importance of past ---- that have brought us to where we are today. Important cultural and political education. To educate persons of the nations history. A reminder and important lesson about the ongoing struggle to achieve equal treatment of all people. I can find color people's history, that is also really important point for American history. To explain racial history which unfortunately still exists.  Just had Dallas 5 cops killed off during a racial rally. It is vital to the history of race relations in the United States. Educate others about the struggle to integrate into schools and society. Very important historical facilities, events and history of the nation and human society. Civil rights. History value is worth continuing for future generations.  Please allow this one to live on. Reminder to all of our history, so that we can forge ahead without repeating it. The park creates an opportunity to further educate the people of the struggles and progression in the south. Black history. Historical background on LR, LR 9 and how education has evolved.  Racial tensions are at a high even 60 years later. It was a start. Learn about segregation today!  In the US past. Park ranger Randy is a walking history book.  He made the presentation come alive. Showing the ability of young people to resist oppression and abuse of power. Important Historical landmark for school integration. To learn about history and a few can make such a difference. Informational history. Crucial for civil rights. To learn about historical facts that have impacted the future of this nation. Very significant.  I'm glad it is preserved.  Thank you. De ---- An important reminder into the history of Civil rights and equality for all people. Because of the ----. Little Rock 9 is part of Americas history. Educational etc. Agreed significance to the nation.  Something to have our children experience. To show the history and Black America. Something that everyone should see. Extremely important to share what was and what still remains to be accomplished. History was made here and all generations should experience this. Of a period in our nation's history of a young people who were brave enough to work for change. History! The information that was viewed through the audio of the vents that happened in the city of Little Rock, Central H.S.. History. This helps tell America's story! Key historical moment for both balance of power and civil rights. Preservation of the history of the nation, reminder of the past and how to improve in the future. Extremely significant, highest importance. From N.J.-read about Central High, but to be here and see first-hand the place of such importance in the civil rights movement-inspiring. Historical event. Historical/cultural significance. Important part of history that should be learned by all.  I also believe that we all need to be reminded of such atrocious events that occurred in our country. Sharing the good, bad and ugly of our U.S. history for future generations. The beginning of desegregation.  The bravery of the nine students. Very significant. Yes, very important to learn especially in today's time. Still happening today-must learn from history. To educate people and show how far we as a people have come. The need to remember what happened and how wrong it was, so history isn't people.  It's important to know how people were affected by events. Historical, cultural. This park is a standing example of the past and how we can continue to learn form it. It is a very interesting significant site of remembrance to help us remember where we have been and how we can go forward. History. Little Rock nine. It presents a superb overview of our historical period and its relevance to American society is especially strong today. Educate everyone on the past, give personal stories from people who experienced it. To show how far our nation has come and how much farther we have to go. History that is very important for all to see. Tells story of struggle toward greater justice for all. To remind us of our past-so we do not repeat it. A place for American to grow up, change the way all our people need to get along. To educate people about civil rights. Our nations history, good or bad, needs to be combined.  History is said to repeat itself and tends to do so as we get further from the people who lived it. Leads the way that our children will understand and appreciate why they are here. Makes people aware of a very difficult period in history. Very significant and increasingly so. To remind us of past segregation and ---- is to move forward. Yes. Integration of schools. A deeper understanding of the times. To help educate and eliminate racism. The original purpose for which it was established.  Continuing to share the history of our nation the good the bad and in different. Historical contribution of central high. History. It tells a very important chapter in our countries history. Progress as a nation. Retaining the history of our nation's segregation policies-and the barriers POC have had to endure as citizens of our nation. For your knowledge and what education opportunity ----. This park taught me the history of central ---- and I can say I truly enjoyed it. It is a horrible part of the country's past that cannot be forgotten.  This is a vivid reminder of how individuals/people can be. Great to help us learn from our past so we won't repeat them! An amazing gem of our history.  The perfect place for history to come alive for kids. It is important to have these types of sites to teach younger generations about our struggles and obstacles and to inspire them to continue make change. A part of our history we need to do a much better job intentionally talking about.  We need MORE parks like this. Integration. The Civil Rights movement. Essential history. Very nicely covered.  Always a pleasure to visit NPS and learn history and enjoy national treasures. It played a key role in integration of the public schools in AR and the United States. Very important; especially today! The catalyst of racial equality."
108,Mojave NPres,MOJA,"Preservation of desert habitat (natural habitat). The preservation of certain sites (i. e., lava tubes, Hole-In-The-Wall, sand dunes, etc.) for visitors to enjoy. Historic railroad town, nice place to stop. A bit of California history.  I especially liked the scale model of areas. Protecting desert ecosystems, remembering World War II. Such an enormous, vast space of desert habitat. Geology, flora, and fauna, railroad and mining history and especially the Mojave road. To preserve and educate about the Mojave desert. Trip back in American history! Geology, significance of the Natives who lived here, beauty of the Mojave preserve. Lots of history of rail roads here. ""Broad"" open spaces with room for people, desert tortoise; bighorn sheep, diverse plant communities.  (I saw side winder while litter-picking). Beautiful solitude, never (----) anthropological history.  Wildlife ---- ---- ----. About history ---- ---- ---- the facilities back in the ---- ---- ----. Very important to the history and ---- of North America. Preservation of unique Mojave eco system. Preserving nature and wild life controlling human destruction of America's beauty. Preserve desert environment and habitat for desert tortoise. Very special Joshua tree forest needs to be preserved and desert tortoise habitat protected so future generation can enjoy. It's a great example of Mojave desert and provides an excellent alternate/different desert ---- to Death Valley, NV, UT. Last (only?) building in Xelso in middle of what was once a boomtown. Preserve the Mojave for future generations. It preserves an untrammeled vast area of the desert, its vistas, it's quiet and solitude, and it's night skies. Reminder of the era and Harvey influence. Native American history; natural/ ""wilderness"" history with regard to flora and ----; history of railroads; WWII history. No significance-should've left it with B. L. M.. Preservation of unique desert eco system and local history.  Provide recreational opportunities. History, nature and wildlife preserve. Gorgeous, accessible, not crowded! Preserving the desert tortoise; significant to preserving the mountains and desert of the Mojave, preserving western railroad history. Largest National preserve.  Some Joshua trees.  Sand dunes looked interesting. Spectacular desert habitat and we research reserve ---- homeland. The ---- and ultimate wilderness of the desert. This is the most beautiful part of the Mojave Desert. Background history excellent. ---- Preservation of plants/animals and areas of historical interest. It is a unique treasure, kind of ecosystem. Preserves the beauty of the area for future generations. Wilderness-unique desert environment. It's the highlight of Mojave preserve!  ---- is about ---- for me.  I like remote and hole in the wall is! Ranching and mining history and present use. Preservation of a natural resource.  Kelso RR station valuable line to the past. Landscape, wildlife, environment. Beautiful and obscure let's keep it that way. Mining history. The beauty of the park, the ring trail is wonderful. Natural and historic significant railroad history and mining. Beautiful Mojave desert. Connection to history. Highly significant. Preserve desert habitat for future generations. There's no place like the Mojave. Great example of desert landscape. Mojave desert plants, animals, desolation, solitude, night skies. Majestic desert beauty.  Wild. Important to protect high desert from grazing, mining. We love coming to the unspoiled desert. A lot of open space with few people-and in that ---- it was ---- when it was BLM land and there were fewer people and fewer sites, but it's still very nice. The reservation at native wild lands. Beautiful, perfect in every way. It is a national treasure well worth preserving. Keep it going. Preserving natural resources and wild life. Mixed feelings.  Been coming here for 40 years.  Prefer when it was quieter. Great. Amazing geology and diversity. Great to see the wildlife and natural beauty. Open desert land with a huge variety of plant life and space for wild animals to and a lot of space to survive in this environment. Preservation of desert biology, ecology and culture. Preserving the desert. Historical significance.  Geologic formation.  Nice hiking area.  We only found Hole in the Wall by accident.  What a treasure!  A secret treasure! Unique areas are of great value.  Had allow us to look back in time. Kelso train station, Kelso sand dunes, excellent facility. To save the history. It was a long way out, so was happy for the break and rest. The visitor center resources were remarkable.  Good to see visitor centers well stocked with guides, etc., instead of merchandising kitsch. Share the desert and its gems with the public. Preservation of desert environment. Preservation of history, and open area for recreation. Preserves history ---- ----. To help people realize the vastness and beauty that's in this country!  Amazing! Protects and preserves a unique range of environments from sand dunes to high desert. Preserving this incredible environment for all to visit. It is significant because it protects specific types of ecosystems not found much elsewhere. Show case Mojave desert ecosystem. The stepping stone of awesome desert landscapes between Joshua Tree and Death Valley. Preserving desert habitat, animals, and plants that survive in this habitat. Repaving roads. Preserve open spaces with nature; i. e., rocks, veg. and fauna.  And, the Depot. The Depot was ---- and important to preserve WWII history.  The desert landscape is a National Treasure. Setting aside preserves and National Parks aside from protecting these areas.  Help encourage people to explore our wilderness. Unique ecosystem. Keeping this type of desert with no outside effect.  A complete natural living environment, as it was. Preserving unique nature for wild life, plants and people. Preserve status is unique, varied beauty both veg and at D (more than it's neighbors) and sand dune dry; volcanic; remote but decent back roads; ---- ---- a ----. How beautiful the desert can be. Simplicity of the ----, preserve habitat for animals and ---- plants, big open ---- ----. Unique flora/fauna, cool geologic features only found in U.S. Solitude, open space, the Joshua Tree Forest, wild life, the diversity of habitats in the desert, the dark night sky! To preserve the subtle beauty of our land. To guard to promote the natural beauty of this park and protect habitats of wild life in a desert environment. Close to nature.  Tranquil.  Good ----.  All very natural. Preserving unique desert habitat. The multi generational ranches and cattle grazing was nice to witness in this area of the preserve. We were most taken by the flora, geology, and the anthropological sites. A marvelous geological location offering wondrous ---- and learning experiences.  Unique. Its natural beauty also. Love driving through-beautiful desert. Conservation of our natural heritage. Amazing resource that will only be more valuable as S. CA population grows.  Many layers of history and variety of ecology. It has everything of beauty. Preservation of beautiful and precious area with fragile habitat. Beauty. To be able touch nature.  It has great experience stuff outstanding. Preserving desert wilderness. It's beautiful-the natural history is amazing. The dunes, the beautiful vistas, Kelso depot, all of it! Preservation and protection of the Mojave Desert eco system, it is opportunity to experience it without commercial development of National Parks-not grazing! Hmmm...  that's deeper than what I was experiencing.  I wasn't well informed about the desert.  Was delighted to see the many levels of life in the desert. Special appearance of the rocks, climbing the rocks. The freedom. 0 In my opinion, this park is important because it preserves a large variety of species that are endangered. The Joshua trees!  The sand dunes! Part of the west.  Who's meaning is not taught in our schools and in fact is actively disparaged and looking down on by liberals. Train stations should be restored as they are part of the history of America."
109,Denali NP & Pres,DENA,"To protect animals and land-share.  God's magnificent creation with every one. Nature at it's finest. Preservation of nature. Preservation of the Last Frontier and history of Alaska.  Maintain the wilderness with the least intrusion by humans. District icon of national parks and what this country has to offer. The last untamed wilderness.  Alaska is huge and wonderful. Best summarized in the 1980 legislation-the need for us to preserve and not consume the heritage of our national parks.  Happy 100th! Preserving the park for our children and future generations. Wilderness preservation on a huge scale plus education for all of us who live a life long way from the wilderness. ---- Bringing USA and others together to enjoy what the US in part offers. Conservation of natural resources, wild life is priority. Preserving nature, culture and history for future generations.  A way to experience a wild landscape. This park not only preserves but also educates visitors about the importance of wilderness. Preservation of unspoiled wilderness.  Flora and fauna while yet allowing reasonable public access. How ---- it is, how natural and beautiful. Denali itself-the wildlife, the wilderness. ----. The mountains, the history/culture of area and size. Highest peak, rare wild life, interesting, biologic diversity. The wild life. Shuttle ---- should be available to carry. Wilderness preservation and gorgeous scenery. Appreciation of wilderness and history. Commitment to preserving for us all. Wilderness. It is vital to preserve this park. Denali is a rare place offering wilderness and solitude paired with exceptional visitor services. It preserves a large sections of wilderness. Nature-open space. Highly significant. Wilderness conservation. Absolutely important to the ---- system. Magnificent environment worth preserving. As largest and most northern park, it is exceptional and significant. Shows America at its best. To preserve for ---- ---- ---- ---- this ---- ----/ It preserves national forest and animals (grizzlies, black beans, ----) that called ---- home.  It is a very important education for public to ---- ----. Keeping it ---- out accessible. Natural ----. This what Alaska is all about.  The natural area is preserved for generations to come.  Thank you. Protecting the ecosystems (wild life, land, experience) for future generations. Protect the wildlife in the area protect Denali ----. Our most beautiful natural resources ---- be protected.  All Americans should have the capacity to walk these hollowed trails. Protection of nature, ---- and ----. Preservation of wilderness is important. Preserve, protect, educate. Wild life preservation. Maintain pristine wilderness and protect wild life from rapacious practices. Preserve nature and wildlife while preserving area around our tallest peak! Preserving one of the last traits of wilderness in the world. Awesome frontier. Conservation and preservation of ecosystem. Protect wildlife from market hunters.  Replace campground concessionaire-poor service:  confusion. A place left undisturbed by man where we can wonder at the majesty of the natural world. Highest U.S. peak. Huge! A view of what untouched wilderness is.  Safe place for large animals, almost non-existent in U.S.. Conservation. Access to unique geography and wildlife. The last wilderness. Preserve the wildlife and educational. Very significant-must remain as a national park. Protection of the land. Its contribution to the understanding of the alpine ecosystem and protection of places of exceptional beauty. Preserved vital ecology and glacier.  Keep up the fantastic work. Expand coverage of wilderness areas for the future generations to enjoy. One of the best national parks in the country.  Great landscape and wildlife viewing. Protect our natural monuments and wildlife. The significance of the past is the perseveration of nature, where humans began.  It represents the fact that life is larger than humans. Alaska is a world known nature wonder of the world.  Nation has the responsibility to preserve, protect, yet at the same time make available to people for viewing and learning. Wildlife and habitation preservation. Wonderful way to see wilderness and hear how we can help in small ways to conserve our national resources.  Already a major recycler. Very significant. Highest peak in nation.  Very large park. Preservation of history and wildlife. Tallest mountain, preserve nature. Wildlife.  Nature and mountains. Great! It protects wilderness. Definitely one of the parks you need to see before you die. It is the only way to be reminded of one's place in this wonderful country. Majesty of God's creation.  Informational and cultural to all to walk a lot but still enjoy. National pride, democracy. Preserve wilderness to nourish our inner spirit. Protect and preserve wildlife, cultural heritage, and great outdoors. Showing how a certain group of people lived hundreds of years ago. Square footage/acreage.  Great respect to Natives to protect. This park is the link back to what we've lost-unaltered wilderness.  How much closer to paradise can you get? You need to emphasize wilderness MORE to increase the wilderness expectation as different from other parks.  Most people do not understand.  This is Alaska, not Yellowstone, and people do NOT understand this. Nature. Conservation. Very significant highly ----. The way it has try to stay close to the nature and the Denali Mountain. Preserve wildlife and natural beauty for all to see. The heart of the nation is seen in how we respect the land. Wilderness, preservation. Unique and varied wildlife.  Polychrome pass and valley were awesome."
110,Badlands NP,BADL,"Protecting the scenic beauty. I don't know-but I safe and glad its there wonderful and amazing place. We get so busy with our routines/stresses/delegation.  We need total opportunity to have fun, learn, appreciate a bond with family/friend/others. I believe that the geological significance is obvious and more than significant in ---- ----.  Most significance is ---- ---- ----. Amazing terrain and the history of name ""Badlands"". One of the world's richest fossil beds.  Beauty of the Badlands/animals.  Many famous fossils found. Geologic ----. Amazing fossils, geology, history and hiking. Preserving the beauty of the Badlands. Heritage/history of life before modern day.  It's beautiful. All good. The unique rock formations, provide habitat and fossils. Rock formations and fossils. ---- I think that this is a awesome place for families to use. Protect and preserve. Beautiful geological ----. It's part in the development of the West. It is already that had to be crossed by ---- manor of ---- ---- West.  A ---- to them, but ---- those we displaced. The unique geology, the beautiful vistas. Keeping the land in it's natural state. Preservation of history and the American Prairie. Fossil history, Native American historical land use, natural play and hiking area for appreciation of natural spaces. Natural and cultural resources. Preserving the beauty. History. It's ----. Disappearing landscape and living things. Very high-most people do this park as a drive by or one day.  They should be encouraged to stay longer.  Great for kids! Very significant. Geographical-fossil-history. The beauty. Native American history. It' awesome. The geology-sunsets/sunrises. To be able to see past come to ----. To protect and preserve the landscape and it's wildlife. Scientific ---- To know the history of the country is very important and nothing can present that than a place like this. Uniqueness, history. Uniqueness. Preserving how special this place is. Rock formations that will never happen again. Geographically unique and beautiful. Amazing views. Beauty, uniqueness, and educational quality.  It's a key to unlock the past-information.  It's cool. Our geologic uniqueness. Landscape and life of the area. We have traveled 9 states on this trip.  This park has things we have not seen on all the other parks and beautiful! Because it has lots of history that makes our country unique. Preservation! Conservation and education. Very unique geology.  A natural wonder! Fossils indicate how old the area is and allows us to study prior times through that as well as ---- the formations of the cliffs. The fossils indicate how old the area is and allows us to study prior.  Times ---- that as well as they cliff formations. Unusual geologic formations.  Unusual mammal fossils. History of the United States through ---- of years. The beauty. Amazing scenery that inspires youth to be outside, protect our natural environments and learn about nature and history. It's an amazing view and area that I think is beautiful.  Also archeologically it is very important. Impressive geology. Preserving our natural heritage. Introducing kids to the outdoors, finding fossils, geology and learning how our planet formed and evolved. The history of the native American population and it's relationship to the land is important to preserve.  The geological uniqueness of this park is also very valuable. Preservation of the initial trials of adventures. Geology, beauty, paleontology, potential climate studies. To preserve unique environments in the US and the price makes it accessible to many. Unique and delicate geologic features and abundant fossil resources. Link to vital Native American culture and paleontological services. I am Canadian. Preservation. Geology, paleontology, earth processes, scope of vistas, exposure to wildlife wow!  My whole family loves it!  Teen boys too! Presentation of grasslands. We are lucky to live in USA and see beautiful places that can only be seen in US. Indian tribes/beauty. History in national park along with the showing we have fossils. Different rocks and mountains than found in other parks. It provides a place to gather with other citizens to cherish together our treasure.  It invites others to join in. Being able to see amazing land forms. Preservation of fossils. Providing insight and perspective that is not available in other parts of the USA. Exceptional example of a natural geologic resource. A showcase of this country's unique prairie landscape where visitors can be mused in a highly visual walk through geologic time. Unique landscapes and scenery. To preserve and protect for our grandchildren. The character and geology are unique to the nation and should be preserved and made available along with the history. The beauty, atmosphere, history!"
111,Gettysburg NMP,GETT,"To keep the history alive to teach children adults the importance of Gettysburg history. It is a HUGE part of American history and the sacrifices made by thousands of men. It is a part of our rich history. The turning of the tides of war and ""a new nation"". Significant battle in our nation's history; helps us be grateful and remember loved ones lost. To see and honor those who fought and some died in the civil war. It is significant because a serious part of our nation's history occurred here.  It's important to acknowledge the sacrifices made for freedom at this park. To show and explain the rive boat here.  Protecting our freedom of way of life!! Giving ---- rights and opportunities. Historical ---- of a battle that shaped the direction of this country. History of the US (part of). Describe civil was and Gettysburg, which was a turning point in civil was and American history. A place to pay homage to those who died for 2 different freedoms. Birth of equality and solidarity for a growing nation. Historical landmark.  It should never be changed in any way. Turning part of civil war. Valuable landmark signifying sacrifice and change in our countries history. It tells the story of the history of the war and how our nation was built. To understand the sacrifices of those who preserved the Union, the immense toll on all involved, how significant Gettysburg will always be. Exceptionally significant.  This battle cost more American lives then any other on this continent.  It is hallowed ground. It's where it all happened for the civil war. To remember our country's history. The fight to keep the states united but also state rights. It establishes a connection between the visitors and the civil war. Very significant. Helps our young people remember the past. A place of reverence to honor the soldiers who gave their lives to keep our country united and have freedom for all. Everything educational. Historic. It commemorates the great sacrifice of many for freedoms important to them. Preserved very well.  Important because of what happened here.  Save Camp Letterman. To honor fallen soldiers and keep history alive. I believe there are lots to be learned from history in all of it's forms.  This park has always been a fun way to learn about history. History is important! The sentence above answers the question.  But since you asked, it is another BIG cog in the machinery used to preserve the union. Civil Wars-enough said! Civil war. Remembrance. Significant of the importance and value for our freedom. The importance of civil war battle fields and preservation is beyond measure.  Gettysburg being the best known and most visited puts it at the top of the list to keep history alive. Critical moment in our history. To commemorate the importance of the Battle of Gettysburg in the span of the Civil War that tore this nation apart. Gettysburg-national battlefield. This is a reminder as to what our nation stands for and what we need to get back.  Freedom for all with no special status.  We are all Americans. A well preserved yet functional town to remember and live with history. Very important. Remember our history so we won't repeat. Significance:  1. The reality of the price which was paid by individuals and the country as a whole to protect our values of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness for all people.  2. Protect and maintaining this ground for which so many sacrificed. To foster the interest in our nations history. The events that occurred here touched the lives of all Americans all natural parks we've visited have national significance.  We are reminded of all the soldiers died to ensure our freedom. It display's with great detail the significance of the history Gettysburg had during the U.S. civil war. One of the most important is American history.  Sacred!  A must visit for any citizen. Securing democracy. Sad commentary on the cost of war. ----. 0 Some. This location defined the Nation ---- would become. To keep history alive and continue to honor those who served. I get the feeling when visiting that this is one of most important sites in U.S. Remembrance for the Great Battle that was fought on these grounds and for the fallen solider's that never went home to their families. Lest we forget!  Great grandfather in 17th Calv. Yes. Very very powerful. To share the history. Hopefully learn from our mistakes and learn to listen to others. This park is extremely significant and a national treasure.  Our nation must never forget what happened at Gettysburg. Historical battle of Civil war. Reliving the battle. It shows the best and the worst of our history.  It makes us learn who and what we are.  It keeps our sense of place and wonder alive.  Wish we could all see this park-it would benefit us so much today! A marker of the ---- of the civil war. The sacrifices made to ensure freedom for all, white and non-white. It's a memorial to those who fought. Turning point of the civil war. Understanding key period in history that built today's USA. Gettysburg was a pivotal monument in our nations history and therefore should be preserved to help educate the future. It's something horrible that happened that should never happen again. Remembrance of soldiers efforts to protect the union in Northern state from a confederate invasion and plunder. Rebirth of the nation. The turning point of the U.S. Civil War.  The greatest conflict in American history. Can we remember past and present military. Yes this is very important but I think the park forgot the members on active service. Super important. That the perspective is one of a whole country the US and not an issue of North vs. South."
112,Blue Ridge Pkwy,BLRI,"Only visited folk art center.  Significant for our cultural heritage and history.  Beautiful and inspiring. The history and natural beauty as well as outdoor family activities. Very important for preserving public access to the beauty of nature and options for being out of doors. Linville Gorge, NC provides the ability for a mostly urban population to experience nature again.  Fantastic. Love, love the Mountains and fresh air. Scenic, some fishing, Kayak, hiking. That it has stayed Primitive for every one to enjoy. With paving/condos wonderful to have quiet area to enjoy nature. Preserve the natural habitat. Waterways play a vital role in our state's overall ecology.  Linville trails are surrounded by beautiful trees and flowers. Beauty, history. Openness, woods, waterfalls, beauty. Overwhelming beauty.  Connecting nation with nature. Preservation of our natural wonders, as well as a place for children (of all ages) to learn to appreciate nature. It is our beautiful mountains! Learn about history. It displays the beauty of the mountains and gives our founder ""God"" glory on His creation!! Scenery, tradition, historic trails. Share history. Great! Great place to relax. It is wonderful to ---- that won't be developed. Beauty of nature-appreciate natural ----. It's beauty. To promote ---- the history and enjoyment of music in this ----. ---- the heritage ----. Historical perspective and current examples of the music of this area. It is a wholesome park, educational for adults and children. The road to ride; the impact of people not from cities on our culture. To see, hear and get involved in local culture. It is one of the most beautiful drives in the U.S.! Protection of beautiful natural resources, protection of wildlife.  A respite from a crazy world. The history of the people, music and mountain. Shore beauty and history of VA. 1-10 2. It provides access to otherwise unavailable wonders of nature. It allows people to experience the defining physical pleasure of the eastern U.S. the nature and ---- there in as well as it's ---- in our nation's history. Greatly enjoy opportunity to hear music at blue grass center. Mountain music history. Preserve nature and culture. Mountain music. Appalachian heritage-culture-music. Heritage, preserve past.  Great to see kids in park.  Plan to bring are grand when she is older. Great. Great. Blue Ridge parkway exists to give the public access to the beauties of the Blue Ridge and to give knowledge and appreciation of the ---- including music! Preservation of beauty. Few that is a driving park, we do mostly hiking and swimming-nice change! Extremely significant to preserve for future generations-this is part of our national heritage. Historical and cultural significance of the Appalachians. Natural history. The BRP is a timeless treasure.  The national beauty, easy access, serene drive, non-commercialized.  We love it and visit 1-2 times per year. It is an outlet to see nature while encouraging outdoor activity. The amazing sights it offers. The park and facilities were awesome! Ability to see the locks. Beauty of the Blue Ridge Parkway and enjoyment of what life was. Allows individuals to see and explore the beauty of the Blue Ridge Mountains.  Established a love and appreciation for our country. Scenic views. Beauty of region and preservation. Preservation of nature and education of culture. I think it allows us to access the unique Appalachian culture, which is the heritage of many Americans from the region. Connecting the region, heritage and people. Appreciating the natural beauty and the folk art! Excellent. See nature at it's finest! The Blue Ridge Parkway provides a brilliant overview of the Appalachians. To offer access to a beautiful part of the nation to the public in an educational and environmentally friendly manner. It's home. It is an important part of the history of this area of the Blue Ridge Parkway. Preservation of undeveloped area and scenic drive. Cultural, historical, beauty. To see and remember the past and learn from it. I think the BRP offers a magical environment through beautiful views and the opportunity to experience the history and culture of our nations past. Preserving its heritage. Needs to be preserved. Excellent. Driving tour at original out west frontier. History of SW Virginia. Old time milling operations. It is a true gift to each of us who are lucky enough to enjoy its grandeur!  A big, fresh breath that takes us away from reality. Learning about the history of this part of the country and opportunity to enjoy the amazing vistas along the way! 0 Historical preservation. I love the fact that this park is preserving the Blue Ridge! Pioneer heritage. The history of the area. Scenic. It's rich in history and beauty. Preservation of hardy mountain history and of landscape, flora and fauna for respectful enjoyment by all. Park needs some cleaning and cutting and more-it used to be nice. The bounty of nature and an example of life during the early colonial and revolutionary periods. Majestic views of mountains connecting large segment of east U.S..  Preservation of past and way of life. Historic culture.  Historic preservation. The water wheel and preserved nature. Eco-flow. Adds insight to ---- area and show the diversity of our state and nation. Beauty and nature of US for people to discover and enjoy.  Education of historical past life in the US, preserving history. Because the history and the preserving of our national forests.  My ancestor, ""Teddy Roosevelt"" started the Blue Ridge area a national parks!  It's IMPERATIVE to save and protect our parks, nature and to teach the young and old!!!"
113,Fort Raleigh NHS,FORA,"Very significant, very important to learn about the first settlements. Very educational. History and for us not to forget! Historically important site of the first English Colony. First English colony in New World. First attempt at English settlement, first English child born, ---- as to what happened to colonies. Story of lost colony.  Spanish moss.  Love the video at the visitor center.  We would give excellent to everything. Historical significance for our country. The first English Colony. It gives a good understanding of hardships faced by early settlers in America! First English settlement; early Colonial life; relations with Native Americans. It is the history of how people risked their lives to try something new. ---- Site of the lost colony. Lost colony, birth of Virginia Dare, and the Freedman's Colony are important parts of U.S. history. First Colony. The mystery of the Lost Colony. America's first English speaking settlement. A historical landmark, would like to keep it around. Gives some perspective regarding America's beginnings. Show our historical beginnings. History and beginnings of the country. As the U.S. started as English colonies, the first colony is the point of origin of our nation. Learning more about the first colony and reason for the colony. It teaches about some of the first Europeans coming to America and their struggles and interactions with natives. This was when the first settlement took place with John Smith. Site of first colony and civil war history. First set of English settlers. First flight of Wright brothers, first (lost) colony and archeological site national seashore-one of the best in the country. Great history of the first colony and early settlers. It tells the story of a past of the beginning of our nation. It is significant as the first ---- contact between Europeans and natives. To admire the beauty of ---- Island and ---- the history of the last colony. 1st English Colony. Early settlers and their introduction to natives and ----. The beginnings of our great nation. First English settlement in New World. The birth of our nation; although it was a failed effort, it led to bigger and better colonies.  This is a great educational opportunity. (1) Early history.  (2) Nature. Yes. Earliest History-Lost Colony Film was super! Invaluable! One of the keys to our origins as a nation. First establishment. First Settlement! It's history is important! Preservation of the earliest Colonial (English) Settlement in the Americas. Where it all began. Hug history. It portrays the beginning of our English existence in America. Preserving ---- ----. Very significant. Info on each settlement. Being able to visit various locations learn the history of our country. Quite significant.  One of the reasons we came to this area on vacation. Sad history of greed. The history. 1st settlement from England in America though lost. Historical and cultural significance. Very significant and should be funded. Origins of English settlers. Good education. 1st colony in New World real history. History. Inform us of the 1st establishment of the English. Integral part of our history. Very significant. History of English settlers. History. It is important to know the history of our nation.  It helps ""us"" to appreciate who we are when we see from where we came. This is the mark of the first established colony of the U.S. It discusses the history of the first English settlement here on Roanoke Island. The first colony in the U.S. lead to Jamestown and America as we know it today. Represents the opportunities the new world provided for others. To learn about the lost colony. It tells the story of the difficulty of starting a nation and has times that are still relevant today. It was the 1st English settlement attempt.  Plus the mystery about the lost colonies pretty interesting. Historical, natural. The enduring hardships of starting a global empire. Adds to knowledge of beginning of the country. The national significance of this park is being the site of the first english colony and the site of the first English baby on American soil. It is essential to the founding of our English-speaking country, and is literally the birthplace of ""the English"" in ""N. America"". Early American history and Exploration and Nations development. History of our country! Learning about America's first group of settlers. Colonists. Very significant. Emphasizes the first significant attempt for a permanent European settlement in what is now North America. The location of the first English settlement over 400 years ago. Very. It preserves an important part of our history. Very significant."
114,John Day Fossil Beds NM,JODA,"The history of this region prehistorically. Fossil history. Next time just go to museum: easier. The obvious uniqueness of the fossil history contained here is/should be of interest to everyone! Yes, I have recommended others to visit here, too! Very interesting, educational for all ages. Understanding geologic history. A window into history. Important part of our history and very worth preserving. Very important! History; climate change. Scientific exploitation.  Expansion of current-future knowledge. Extremely valuable, especially considering the uncertainties relating to climate change. Invaluable significance that tells the story of Oregon evolution. The huge fossil beds. Resources for fossils/learning about history. Preserve and support fossil research. Important part of our history and past. Preservation of fossils/availability for scientific study of our past. The number and quality of the fossils. Tremendous Cenozoic fossil record. A very detailed and well-dated chronology of ancient plant and animal life.  Excellent exhibits to help understand. Helps us understand the relationship of geology, climate, ecology, etc.  Irreplaceable treasure-and spectacularly beautiful. Presentation of our great geologic history. Preservation and awareness of paleontological resources. Preserve and share info of past.  Not the climate change crap. Geology. History. Scientifically VERY important. Educational value excellent, especially in preserving/offering opportunities about areas people might not visit (hot, dry) or consider important in the discovery of the history of our country. The history that is presented is incredible.  We can learn so much about the present and future from the past.  I love this park. In general, it's unique geography. Protection of history and fossils. It shows natural history! The fossils and ---- flows. This park is an example of the way certain landforms can be very dynamic and the history it can reveal. Continued knowledge gained by study of geology and fossils. Any institution that strengthens the public's understanding of science is significant for our country. A chance for the people to know it is here. Clearly the fossil collection and the ---- to understand past environment. Fossils of the area tell us what used to live here. Very significant. Wonderful opportunity to learn about the earth's evolution and geological events. Great trails. All. Historical knowledge and beauty! My family has lived in this area 100+ years and I've never ----. Preservation of natural beauty; plant and animal species while allowing for education and breath taking views. The beauty and the fossils. This is a unique area of the country that provides valuable information about an ---- time period in our nation's past. Fossils. Further understanding of our past and the species that inhabited our shared land. Public education, geologic and past environmental lessons. Scientific education. To keep record of year past. Preserve the blueprints of today. For everyone to enjoy the rich fossils and geologic history. Ever changing earth. It's a one-of-a-kind place, it's amazing. Preserving history and understanding past life. Very interesting explains evolution very well. To learn about Earth's geological history! Discovery and education for everyday people. Keep up the nice job!! The historical preservation of geological and climate changes-source of knowledge for others. Treasure trove of fossils, much info to be gathered/gained by preserving them in place. Unparalleled fossil record. Yes, it was amazing. Geological/evolutionary/biological history of the region. Geology, because geology is simply amazing! 0 Go history! Protect, preserve, science. Protection of the fossils and scenery for generations to come. Dan was very helpful! The geological and paleolgical insight it provides. Also, it's beautiful. Very cool. To study our history and inspire future scientists/enthusiasts. To allow people from all over to see what Oregon used to look like. ---- Very significant-to our nation to know of paleontology makes one humble. This is a beautiful facility. One of several places which allow people to see into the past. Preservation of, and ability to teach history, geology, and paleontology to kids and adults. Very high. The education it provided to our daughter and us was invaluable. I'm definitely bringing my girl scout troop back. Geology. Highlighting that humans are part of the circle of life and that we should do our part to sustain all live now and in future. I love it super fun and learned a lot. The protection of fossils for future generations. History. It represents the fossil record of our continent. Great natural history. Abundance of fossils, which help us learn about past and future.  Also incredible views and unique. Very informative displays of the geologic and biologic evolution of the area. Gives history of our earth-climate and creatures. Academic and historical significance. Learn about geological history of my state. The national significance of this park is the stewardship of the fossil resources. Time depth, diversity of life over time. About early history of our land. This was a wonderful unexpected find. I could spend days here just imagining the history of life. I think it is amazing that this impressive piece of history is in our state, but few people realize it. Fossils and settler endeavor history. Very much.  It was a very educational and stimulating center.  Conservation and preservation at its best. Very educational, well done. Historical value of understanding the world and changes over time. It is important to teach people about the history and try to preserve it. An expansive display of history and evolution of the world. Geologic history. Geological history and regional importance. Significant in it's paleontology. Amazing park, with great resources and opportunity to learn about history and for FREE!  Wow Unique beauty and fossil diversity and ----. Uniqueness. Tourism revenue education for youth to help value history and natural resources. Great for paleontological info.  So informative. Not just the nation but the world!  So important we are able to have this easy access to information. Prehistoric history it's amazing! Of utmost significance. All the fossils and your research. A large range coming multiple eras well preserved provides a detailed window into the worlds past. Natural historical record, science view about global climate change. Geological importance. Protecting history and educating. The broad selection of fossils found here. Valuable resource for all ages-""timeless"" wonderful, wonderful!! It is stunning, beautiful more and more land should become national monuments to preserve the beauty of our country (not LBGT buildings). Public awareness of regional natural history. Fossils. Explaining and displaying evolutionary theory and history of the earth-fascinating. Fossils, landscape. Learning about evolution, ancient beings, and natural events of past. Great fossil record. History of evolution/fossils. Importance of learning about animals and plants that lived millions of years ago. It preserves a very unique and beautiful geographic area. Wonderful displays (museum quality; to show fossils, where they came from, importance of each and how they were handled). Staff was extremely friendly and facilities were maintained. To learn about nature and geology. Educational. Geological preservation and education. History-education. Incalculable. Learning science. That people have a wonderful place to view such an incredible part of history. The overall variety and paleo history. Very high due to history information. History, geology, fossils, beauty, wild life. History and geology. The park shows much value in its beauty alone, but aside from this, it is a wonderful educational opportunity for children and adults. Help to counter the idiot creationists who claim the Earth is 6,000 yrs. old. Natural history and prevention of exploitation. The preservation of fossils and display is informative, educational. Very informative.  Educational. Traveling with equally pleased 42, 8 and 6 year olds. We have the largest and most diverse collection of fossils in the world. Beauty of painted ---- and blue cave, fossil source. To understand where we came from and how and have developed. Premier source/site of fossils.  Painted Hills are a fantastic site. Protection of fragile and diverse environment, scientific investigation of unique geo and eco and evolutionary history, recreational opportunities. Preserving the fossils for next generations. Historical, Geological, Significance very high, educational interesting."
115,Grand Teton NP,GRTE,"The animals and the natural beauty. Protection and stewardship of native wilderness. Major. Nature as it was intended to be. Preserving out natural history and the habitat of our nations animals. The beautiful ----. The mountains, like the hikes, and Jenny Lake campground. The true beauty of nature. Preserve natural beauty and wild areas. The Teton range is spectacularly beautiful and the variety of wild life that live there special.  Observing the power of nature is a gift. Preservation of geological features feel for pioneers. Its natural beauty and history. The ""newest"" mountain range.  Glaciers still exist on the Tetons and formed several lakes. A geological beautiful unique area. History. A place for animals and people who want to observe wildlife and nature. Anyone from any walks of life can use and enjoy this park. Beauty, preservation history land. Education of biological resources?  Why isn't burning or logging of dead trees, sedge, etc done to kill beetles? Displays God's glory and creation.  Visits bring people closer to Jesus and his might love and redemption. Protection of species and natural beauty. Grand Teton. The wildlife, mountains, pure beauty. Donation by Rockerfeller, ----, Dick Chenney, you can eat the Cottonroot. The preservation of the Grand Teton Mountains and surrounding habitat and wildlife. Preserve nature for generations to come. This Park's beauty and biological diversity merits protection, and even expansion! Wildlife. It became one of the national parks systems started by President Roosevelt to preserve precious land in it's natural state for ALL to enjoy. It preserves a beautiful area which would have become condo and home developments if not a park. Protecting a beautiful area. Natural wonder and beauty. Recreation in nature. Yes. Preserving nature/natural beauty and wildlife in its habitat. That it's available for everyone! It is a great place where people can learn about nature and hopefully can take that into account in their day to day lives. To preserve the earth's beauty in its natural state. So future generations can enjoy the natural beauty of the park and to preserve the environment. MAGNIFICENT scenery and geologic importance truly a TREASURE! History and beauty. The Grand Tetons inspire young people to protect, preserve, and respect nature. Almost astonishingly beautiful place that should never be spoiled by development. Conservation of natural spaces. Unique landscape and wildlife. Beautiful, diverse eco system, excellent skiing and climbing. One of a kind, really enjoyed our visit. Preservation. ---- as of it's beauty and natural resources. Incredible rock formations, access to glacial lakes and wildlife. Protect this beautiful natural landscape. Preservation of nature. We need more like it with more government funding. Appreciate nature and our connection to it. Beauty of nature. History, geology, scenic, meditation/peace. I love being in a place that's quiet where I can stare at the mountains. Very important contribution to American culture. The value of the irreplaceable OPEN space with wildlife allowed to wander freely in MOST places-SO WONDERFUL. The Tetons have tremendous geological and aesthetic significance.  Also interesting in terms of westward expansion, conservation. ""For the benefit and enjoyment of the people"" while preserving the environment. Having large open space with diversity and preservation is priceless! Preservation and protection of nature. Preserving wildlife and geographic monuments for the PEOPLE. Preserving the areas unique landscape especially the Tetons and their lakes. Provides a landmark for the visit and reminds people of the importance of conservation. To preserve nature space and plants and animals for people to see. Returning to nature. It is a wonderful opportunity to see the natural beauty of the west. Represents the beauty (natural) of our nation and the importance of preservation. It's preservation of nature. The Tetons ---- ---- ecosystem. Preservation of natural resources. Nature, lake, mountains, animals. Philanthropic. American land.  Native in it's original form serenity beauty. It is so impressive to see the land in it's natural condition-the mountains with snow tops in July! Not much historically but unique geography. Preservation of natural resources and beauty.  We don't have many left. Preservation of natural wonder for generations to come. This park has so many wonderful natural and cultural resources that needs to be saved. Amazing natural beauty. Beauty. Leaving wildness as the prime resource! Preserve for all and future. Thank you Rockefeller family for the help.  One of the most beautiful! Unique mountains, beauty, wildlife.  Ranger programs-some excellent, some poor. Unusual geology outstanding scenery; wildlife and culture-this is my favorite park. Very significant.  Grand Tetons was beautiful and we enjoyed being removed from the rest of the world's chaos. Beauty, wildlife, peaceful places and a break in the craziness of our life. It aids in preserving the landscape and species that are a part of the nation. It was perfect for our family.  Many kid-friendly things to do with the balance of more rugged, outdoor opportunities.  A beautiful park! The most significant thing is the plants and animals. Education and preservation of the park for future generations. It has beautiful scenery and amazing wildlife that you cannot see anywhere else in the America. It's one of the most beautiful areas in the country and the hiking trails are second to none. It provides a natural, undeveloped space to escape from the hustle and bustle of daily life and reminds us of the world's natural beauty. Natural beauty/hiking. Natural beauty, history of area. Example of preserved wilderness. Scenery and wildlife. Great, and the cleanliness and very pretty at the parks.  ""Love it."" Everything excellent. The geological youth of the Grand Tetons. Beauty. Ecosystem. Untouched beauty. Mountains, lakes, wildlife. Beautiful mountains, lakes, species. Retain the natural beauty of this nation, preserve it for future generations.  The views from Jackson Lake was majestic."
116,Wright Brothers NMem,WRBR,"Park ranger saw I had NP passport, she pointed me in direction of stamps and page to stamp, very friendly! Recognition of the Wright brothers and their hard work to reach a dream come true...to fly. This Park represents the Wright Brother's journey in the development of flying airplanes.  It is very significant in American history. Learning about the world's first flight is an important part of our Nation's history. Shows Wright Bros. contribution to aviation and U.S. history. Very nice park.  Would like to had a place to sit down and had some water. Beginning of human flight. Learning the origins of ---- and the development of advanced transportation. Bringing history alive for future generations and sparking their dreams will help ensure that creativity and genius will continue to broaden the horizon of mankind. The Wright brothers' invention changed the world in a way few other have. PI in flight! The Wright's accomplishments are significant.  Their methodical approach and tenaciousness should be known. This park signifies the great advancements and impact American people have had on this nation and the world. The Wright brothers first flights and the birth of aviation. History of aviation and pride in the past of North Carolina. American values of hard work and dedication-lead to success.  Also, high school math helps! Every one is captivated by flight and pushing into the unknown.  This Park allowed us to journey back and see a moment when man took a huge step forward! Progress in the AIR!  Celebrating Aeronautical achievements!  Loved it! The history is very interesting, also my kids had fun outdoors. Is of historical significance not only to US but the world ""Son is commercial Pilot"". I think it is obvious-celebrating first in flight. When I think of my grandparents I think of the changes that occurred in their life time-from horse and buggy to a man on the moon. The globe changed quickly because of events which occurred at this site!  I work in aviation and owe my livelihood to the Wright Brothers. National and global significance as a major technology breakthrough site. Significance of First Flight was its dramatic impact on all of aviation industry which enabled innovation and National Security prominence of the U.S. 1st  in flight for brothers. Wright brothers-first flights. Teaching about flight/aviation history. The history it brings of the experiences to our children.  They read about in books and can see for themselves exactly where history was made. Legacy to the history of the beginning of flight.  That they stuck with their dream to built an airplane. Wilbur and Orville Wright-accomplishments. Of the 1st flight and how it was accomplished. If not for the Wright brothers we would not know about flight. Flight. Fantastic aeronautical experiments. Birth place of aviation. Historic moment. Place of First Flight is awesome. Honor the first flight. History. More than national significance...has international significance, created another step for mankind. Education. High significant to the history of our Nation. Flight. Very significant!  We are history teachers. First in Flight Baby! Birth place of First Flight. First flight. The first flight of the Wright Brothers. Education. We were the first with sustained flight, some thing to be proud of.  Which we as a Country seem to be losing. It honors the Wright Brothers' contribution.  I read their bio by David McCullough, so this is meaningful. Very important-we also visited Johnson and Kennedy Space Ctrs.-seeing where it ALL began made it full circle experience. Awesome very informative. First flight history. First in flight! Flight was one of the great inventions of our time.  This movement inspires us to dream big and fulfill our ability. It shows how we solved all the problems and achieved flight...especially by their hard work and money. Of more significance than expected-to be first in manned flight is unparalleled.  I love this place! Like autos, air planes are instrumental in American culture. 1st flight. First flight it's a beautiful landmark. Flight Rocks! Flight. Highlights Americans contribution to the field of flight and Americans' perseverance and tenacity! History. History. Incredibly important to the history of the Nation and the world. Preserve the grounds where the world's first flight occurred. To maintain the history of our nation and to educate our young. To show the imagination and forward thinking of its people. To learn about the Wright brothers. The highest. Science and history is important! Our adults with disabilities loved to learn about the park. Flight is a global form of transportation! The ---- where it was ""figured out"" is very special. Great lecture and experience. It changed the world! The ingenuity and resourcefulness, determination and American spirit of the brothers who birthed powered flight. Historical documentation was awesome. I learned ---- form portraits about ---- history. History, aviation. The wright brothers. Good. Beginning of flight. Realizing what dedication and diligence can contribute to changing the world. History preserved. Historical. It is important to know where the Wright brothers first flew their plane and all of the various hurdles they over came.  Fascinating! Very high. It paid homage to the first flight in the world. One of the most significant. Perfect example of America's pioneering spirit. The death of impossibility. To celebrate the first flight. Flight changed the world! Awesome, but hot! Where aviation began."
117,Redwood NP,REDW,"Trees. The Redwoods are valuable as a habitat/eco system.  Learning about the forest also has significance to human history. Last of the Redwoods. Preserve the Redwoods. Last remaining old growth!  Amazing.  Ranger talks were great. The Redwood Trees are very unique.  As a local I took them for granted.  It wasn't until I visited the Center did I learn how special they are.  Plus ---- ----. It is a treasure to be shared for all future generations. Maintaining the old trees and education of America's treasures, conservation, availability to citizens and public. Preservation of a natural resource. Significance is ---- protect earths beauty and bounty and not exploit it for corporate profit, it's all of ours. I am from Maryland, I have been to Main, but their shoreline and forests are pale in comparison to west coast.  The nature in Redwood is spectacular. To be in the outdoors and preserve the redwoods. Unique habitat, nature conservation at its best to promote learning even looking ahead to inform the carbon green house gases debate. The Redwoods-especially old growth-are a part of our geographical heritage. Because we have to save the trees animals for future generations.  If not, the lumber people will clear the land and that will be very sad. Trees. Preservation of Redwood trees. The best place ---- ""up close and personal"" with the Giant Redwoods. Preservation and restoration of the  natural beauty of this land for future generations to appreciate. Preserve the majority of these living trees. Redwoods.  Outdoor activities. Preservation of our National Treasures. The value of our old growth forest.  Culturally and energetically to us as a special, and our brother Earth. It's unique environment and the different amount of species (animals, plants...). Unique enduring beauty of the redwoods-to be protected-inspiring to see living things with such awesome size. The amazing tall trees, glad to see them be protected and saved for future generations. The stunning beauty of our country and the need to preserve it. To provide a living history for future generations to see groves of Giant Redwoods.  Maps and trails were not well defined.  Dirt road is not necessary. Preservation of natural resources. Banana slugs, variety of sea views, roads and vegetation. The Howland Hill Road, Stout Grove. It reminds us how small and (relatively) insignificant human ambition and pride (including NATIONALISM) are. The Redwoods!  They are so unique!  The coastal portions of the park are great, too! To instill an appreciation for these magnificent redwoods and the need for their preservation. A special opportunity to view another display of God's beautiful creation.  Great is our God and greatly to be praised! The eco system of the redwoods is precious and much appreciated the opportunity to experience it at it's fullest. The preservation of the redwoods for future generations.  So happy we had the opportunity to see them. Preservation of Redwood Forests.  ""A thing of beauty is a job forever"". Significant-so happy the state partners with National Parks, site #104 was the best! Redwoods. Very significant as you need to protect what's left. Provided bad mark/---- for reduced conversation in CA. Ultimate beauty. Critical, all park matter!  We need, more, this park is great. Trees. Preservation of coast redwoods Allocate more resources to maintenance of restrooms, particularly in ---- Smith S.P. were horrible. Beauty. The uniqueness of the trees and forest.. Legacy. The beauty of nature. Trees. To preserve the Redwoods for all to enjoy! To see the trees and the beauty of nature. To preserve a national treasure to educate people about protecting and living in harmony with the environment. An essential natural resource. Redwoods are a national treasure. Natural heritage for all Americans and the world. The redwoods stand Majestic as a symbol of the strength, beauty and enduring freedoms of the USA. It allows people to experience the incredible forest and trees. Wonderful to preserve! Unique trees not found anywhere else-man destroyed in 200 years what will take 1000 years to regrow.  They need our help! Such grand trees are sacred and have been witness to so much.  Visiting this part but my day-to-day experience into perspective.  Thank you. Trees! Must show more the ---- of early logging-more efforts 12  this regard are appreciated. ---- park/natural ---- (My bucket lost, stem one I am not disappointed). These ancient trees are part of our national heritage. the trees.. Physical representation of the past.  How a redwood forest lives for century's. Keeping history and natural beauty alive and appreciated by all of our nation-especially our children and grandchildren. Awe-inspiring natural beauty. Beauty and history. It shows another amazing aspect to our great nation. Preservation of Redwoods an iconic representation. Preservation of old growth Redwoods. Incredible beauty of the Redwood trees. Great. Preservation of this unique eco system, public access and appreciation of nature. Redwoods. To remind us of a time when people didn't respect the natural beauty of Redwood trees. Trying to preserve what little of the Redwoods forest is left. The trees. The trees are magnificent and should be preserved for future generations. Its beauty. The preservation of these rare and beautiful trees. The amount of preservation.  Upon a single glance a giant Redwood has the power to evoke a consciousness.  With the littlest information the individual is inspired to protect and preserve not just this ancient species, but all life. Magnificent trees. The view over looking Mouth of Klamath River also view of the ocean."
118,Lava Beds NM,LABE,"To preserve for generations the unique features of this higher descent including caves and geological feature, ---- history of wild life. A site that was sacred to a community that was eradicated by white settlers should be preserved in honor of them.  Also, it is a unique geology and ecology that must be preserved. It shows early geological formations by volcano and has left some nice caves but had no idea how primitive they were. The map could have been better, with interior pictures and a tunnel map so you know where you are. The park was and is a boon to both our geological and historical (cultural) past.  It is an absolute must that places like this continue! Evidence of each evaluation. Geology, Native American history. High. The caves. Lave formations and caves. The breath taking views. Knowledge of volcanoes. A unique natural resource, biologically and geologically as well as unique historical significance. Natural history. Excellent for learning about geology and conflict between settlers and Native Americans. Excellent.  A part of our natural heritage. Important preservation of history and wildlife. Ranger on the top. History of Native Americans and geological wonders.  The process of how land is made and volcano ----. Preserving and teaching natural and cultural history and preserving spaces for outdoor recreation. Unique. History, amazing geology, cool caves to see. Geological and historical. History and nature. Protect the ----! Ability to explore natural wonders in the US. Fun, fun, fun. Quite high! Preserving natural resources. Explaining volcanic activity and development of area.  Also, significance of ---- Indians. History----- environment. Modoc and US settler history is ---- interesting and relevant to US citizens. Preservation and recreation, people from other countries love US National Parks. The geology of the lava tubes and the preservation of history, especially the Modoc Indian War. A wonderful contribution. The caves and bat population. (1) Learn about geology and nature American life.  (2) Learn about treatment of Native Americans and Japanese Americans. Historic and conserving resources. Historical value-important to know where things come from. History and wildlife. History.  Geology. It is very cool to see the history of the Modoc and the caves are really cool. Keeping the natural state of the wilderness and its beauty. Natural heritage-a unique place in the USA and N. America. Natural history and preservation. Remembering history and culture of area as well as natural formation. The amazing wildlife, butterflies, ----, ----, and nature ----. This is out kids history from ancestral family-heritage. Preserving nature and history for future generations. There is nothing quite like it any where. Thoroughly enjoyed learning about Modoc Indians and Captain Jack's strong hold was a lot of fun! Very high, both naturally and culturally in reference to the Modoc war. Historical/geological. Preserve nature for future generations. The geological and historical nature.  Have been trying to get here for 12 years. Caves, bat habitat, lava beds. Very significant.  Must preserve all for future generations! Worldwide nature phenomena in USA attracts the whole world never TRUMP:he kills tourism. It's natural beauty are ability to excite children about the wonders of nature. To preserve our wildlife/bats. Geologic and cultural significance of the area. Geology. It's unique beauty. The Native American history. The lava beds are amazing. The flora is so different then anything I've ever seen. Historic and landscape preservation. Learning about volcanic activity. The awesome caves and trails! JP Howard. Incredibly significant. Teach humanity about nature. To understand the relationship between settlers, soldiers and modocs.  Geological gold mine! Significant to overseas visitors too! Unique landscape.  Caves!  Thanks to Erin for 2 great events.  Bat talk and cave tour. Preserving bat habitat and lava tubes. The caves are so rare and fabulous.  Love the ---- too.  Gorgeous scenery, a treasure. The lava features and cultural features. Geological formations, wild life (bat) habitat and preservation. Geological masterpiece, wintering ground for a variety of mammal species. History. Amazing land formation and history. Telling the truth about our history. It is geologically unique and provides a great experience for adventurers.  It also is historically important. Geology.  Natural wonder. A way to keep the natural world in good condition. Great history, fun to explore ---- traveled to our benefit.  Can we tell campers and hosts! This part (and all the others) show how different parts of the country formed and the interacting with the environments.  Stuff not taught in schools. It is a geological wonderland that shows how our nation formed.  The Native American legacy is a national treasure. Preserves the unique geographic and historic aspects of the area (we had never hard of Modoc Indians and the confrontations there). Volcanic features not found in many places. I see no NATIONAL significance in any Park.  What does nationality have to do with a cave?"
119,Theodore Roosevelt NP,THRO,"Unique and beautiful landscape, started with T. Roosevelt's help. Just the untouched, natural beauty of the land. We need to KEEP ON PRESERVING THE NATIONAL PARKS. Beauty of the Badlands as well as the importance of Roosevelt's setting aside land. To preserve the history and legacy that Teddy Roosevelt brought to the area. This is a site of natural beauty (Bad lands, grass lands) history and wild life (bison, deer, ---- horn, long horn steer). Great! Geology of bad lands for future generations to see and appreciate. Preserve wildlife and bad lands. Played a pivotal role in the life of Pres. T. Roosevelt. This place was the inspiration for conservation as well as a testament to the life changing power of nature. Views. If you take the time to learn things it's on point for history.  Love this park, I'm first time visitor. The fact that Theodore Roosevelt spent so much time in the Badlands. This park gave Teddy the incentive to start the National conservation effort.  It's important to come see the inspiration. Unique geology (more ads/informative signs on ----), healthy grass prairie-home for Bison and other wildlife in a healthy eco system. Cradle of conservation, tribute to TR, restoration of native wildlife, the Badlands. Preserving an area for wildlife and eco systems to thrive and remain safe and protected from poachers! Preserving a place for wild life and fauna to thrive. Relationship to Teddy Roosevelt and interpretation of early conservation efforts nationally. Memorial to T. Ranger and preserved sample of high paws. Remembering Theodore Roosevelt and his efforts to preserve nature for the future. Very significant because if showed what motivated Theodore Roosevelt. The Badlands are so beautiful, it's worth the drive. Historical connection to T. Roosevelt-great ---- of NPS and outdoor recreation. The park represents ----, safe land and is a glimpse into the past. Oh yes, very different from the national park I've visited.  All one point I was almost in tears. 1. Preservation of a portion of the N.D. Badlands.  2. The importance of this area to T.R.'s development as a conservationist. The unusual geological landscape is very important to preserve. Preserving natural landscapes, preserving a natural space to see the majestic bison, as an opportunity to see what influenced TR to create the parks. This was American in and prior to the 1870s-natural habitat, wildlife. It has it's unique beauty (bad lands, wild animals, etc), that contributes to the natural heritage of this great country. This park showcases beautifully the history of cattle ranching, bison, Teddy Roosevelt and the overall history of the wild west. Preservation of its resources; respite. Very unique area and history.  North unit is much nicer than the South unit. History of Theodore Roosevelt, protection of wildlife and terrain, treasure for Americans and international visitors. The landscape and TR information. I had never heard of TR NP, but am so glad I found it.  I feel it preserves such a beautiful part of our country. The parks provide an essential ---- to preserve U.S. wilderness and give sustainable access to it ---- ---- is so extraordinary. How this ---- influenced the future president TR and lead to the development of preserving public lands. It's preservation.  Beauty, quiet, free of billboards, free of advertising, free of junk food, free of garbage laying all around. Preservation of the animal species and the land. How Roosevelt's life and actions sought to preserve the beauty and resources for generations to come. Beautiful scenery, unspoiled by technology. The abundance of wildlife and peacefulness. TR history, natural history, Native American history. I wish more people would take interest in TR because of the many contributions he made to our country. Conservation. Shows the beauty of nature and ND (Badlands) History of TR and National Parks. The staff and the butte of the park. It retains a piece of undeveloped N. Dakota and show the difficulty of living/ranching there. This is the place where Theodore Roosevelt, the most powerful Conservationist in American history, became a Conservationist.  Fitting that it is a Park. Need more pull-overs along road for wildlife viewing. To broaden our individual harpoons regarding the vast and abundant beauty which surrounds us. The unique natural beauty.  Also, the historic relevance to the president, bison and horses.  (Get those animals some genetic diversity!) We need to preserve what Mother Nature has blessed with. We should honor Theodore Roosevelt for his contribution to historic land preservation by starting the National Park Systems. Very significant place continue all. Roosevelt's legacy should be preserved. This ---- is of great significance. Demonstrates Roosevelt's conservationist legacy. Very important. History of Teddy Roosevelt.  Beauty rock formations. Extensive badlands, native grasslands and riparian areas. Roosevelt's history and wild life. Preserve this vast expense from being destroyed; preserve it for future generations. Educational. Looks at history with T.R.. Honor Teddy R., who established the National Park System. The parks are a good way to preserve our earth and nature. It brings to every visitor the value of conserving our lands, rivers, and forests.  This is a great example. All national parks have great significance to our understanding of our relationship with he natural world, for us and succeeding generations. To preserve nature for other generations pleasure. Historical perspective of TR! The great outdoors. This park is important because it has been protected-for man and nature.  We can all enjoy it together. Where Roosevelt began creation of preserving and establishing National Sites/Park. It commemorates Roosevelt, it recognizes formal efforts to begin conservation through government policy and it preserves ---- free range bison are the perfect symbol of ---- This park demonstrates the involvement and dedication of President T. Roosevelt, in his appreciation for the unique landscape. Preservation and Stewardship of nation's open spaces. TR is awesome, the obvious physical beauty and land forms are good for science education. Theodore Roosevelt ranched here.  The beautiful park, Badlands, the animals.  Nature-love this park. A unique ecosystem not found anywhere else in the country-preservation of the land and wild animals. Preserving the wilderness, bison, and other wildlife habitats is very important to me."
120,New Orleans Jazz NHP,JAZZ,"Jazz group fabulous! Cultural treasure. Jazz is central to the New Orleans culture. History of American music, Jazz to see Louis Armstrong's trumpet ---- Sidney Beche's sax, Futs Domino's ----. Richard Scott was fantastic ---- no treasure. Musical treasure. There is historical significance of excellent ----. Tourism. Yes!!! Jazz is amazing history. Music program-fantastic. Love the jazz concerts. History of jazz. History of ----. Employees didn't say he or anything and didn't give any info. It's an American art form, jazz is definitely worthy of interpretation and preservation.  Can we get a park for Bruce Springstein? Jazz is a national treasure. Jazz is America's music. Jazz is one of America's greatest musical contributions to the world.  This park presents the background and context of a living and now universal art form. Recognizing jazz is important. Richard Scott's ---- ""stride"" ---- and playing was great! Generations of history. History of music. History of America and US peoples. National parks provide educational experiences. Shows why arts and music needs more funding and Federal support. The unique cultural history and musical history of the ----. Continuing to promote the rich culture of jazz. Historical significance. Were in New Orleans and this music is the start up point for all the music we hear today. Thank you! Origin of music identified to America; also historical displays of mint operations; bravo. Music was wonderful. Its contribution to carrying on Jazz for future generations. Jazz is American born and this is right where it belongs. Excellent displays of local culture; Luis Armstrong exhibit, folk art, jazz. Carrying on the traditions of the past. Music program exc. Very important for culture. Unique! Fantastic music program! Jazz IS America's music-of course it deserves a museum."
121,Bighorn Canyon NRA,BICA,"River producer, employment, recreation, flood control. Outstanding! It is extremely sacred and historic when it comes to Crow culture.  The significance of the dam itself is important, too. Beauty, native history. Recreation?  Cliff jumping? Need bike trails, geologist, more community support, i.e. hiking/camping stores, vendors, night time sky talks and programs. Recreation. The relationship with the crow and the wild horses. Yellowtail dam, canyon. Everything. Canyon. Pretty. Wild horses, ----, ranches. Yellowstone Dam and the Big Horn River which is a natural fishery. Very good outlook on nature and culture. Provides water for irrigation in WY and MT, was a cultural gathering spot for native wildlife and Americans. Conservation. Maintain the natural beauty while promoting conservation. Lake, camping with electricity and water. Best trout fishing is the best. The lake and the dam and the campgrounds and the bathrooms. Recreation. Indian Wars. It provides water and power. The birds. It's fun for boats. Very important. The history and use of the land, the water (fishing, boating, etc). Educational on American Indian issues.  The history of Yellow tail Dan and the science behind it. History, unusual beautiful sites, and excellent water resource awareness."
122,Hovenweep NM,HOVE,"It preserves an important part of our nation's cultural history. It tells us where we came from. The ancients that lived in this area how they lived and the structures of their housing left behind; culture; history. The culture of the people who build the Hovenweep dwellings-great heritage. We learn that our country was home to many groups LONG before Europeans came to live here.  It's amazing to see such old ruins. Learn about cultures of our countries past. History. Opportunity to see/learn about ancient inhabitants life.  Significant part of our heritage.  Well worth visit. Secure archive of a Paleo culture. This was occupied from 8000-6000 BC and such a national treasure needs to be preserved for all to see. It's important to know the history of people and how they lived. Historical. Preserving unique architectural sites like towers, and offering interpretation. To educate ourselves on our nations natural heritage and appreciate the beautiful landscape and architecture of the ancestral Pueblo. Awesome. Historic site. Shows the ingenuity of early Indian's and have been intrigued by Pueblo Indians price I was 6 years old. The archeological site-related history. Preserving heritage of the Americans. Preserving Americans history. This park helps us connect with ---- and helps us to understand farming. Preservation of history for future generations. Preserving historic sites for future generations. This was well worth the drive!  It was wonderful to walk so close to the structures.  Clean!  Great rangers. History of the first pueblo peoples-and their significance to our human (special) history on this planet. The fact that the Park is very well kept and all generations will be interested in all the  history it has. It is a preservation of early settler's ---- to our country. I have visited Hovenweep all seasons, many years, always I have been impressed, enjoyed and found peace. Absolutely! This is an interesting part of the history of the four corners area.  It is also amazing how well the structures were built without any equipment so long ago. Protecting our Indian cultures. The history of the ancient people and Native American culture. Anasazi Ruins. It accurately depicts an early stage of settlement in the area-part of our history. Unique early historical site.  Would be destroyed without protection. Helps us understand the people and cultures who inhabited this land 800 years ago. To learn and deserve true early American history through the Native Americans. Gives us an insight to early settlers and their ability to farm and build great structures. History of human ---- of land over centuries and the impact of people on the environment. Preservation of local culture and history. This park is important to preserve native's history, to communicate and educate everyone about people and cultures who lived here before. ""Preserve"" culture. To preserve the Puebloan culture. Beautiful landscapes, early settlement. We need to know ALL of our history-these to were tell the story and get us to ask questions. Wonderful window into the past. Preserves native ---- ruins and culture. It is there to improve our understanding of the ancestral Pueblo Culture. Mankind lived here 800-some years ago and we can still see that today with buildings, pottery, etc..  It should be preserved for all to see. Historical. Preserve Anisazi ruins, educate the public. Preserves native culture so we can learn about it today and tomorrow. Recognition of the skill and role of Pueblo people.  Also of the importance of Dark Skies. Historical and cultural preservation education. Very important so much we do not know about our nations past. Ruins of people-who are native to one country-it is awesome to see how they adapted to the environment-so awesome! To preserve and honor the native American history of our nation. Seeing the historic pueblos was amazing. Love to see history first hand. This park helps preserve part of our national heritage.  I can't help comparing Hovenweep to ruins I saw in Ireland. It demonstrates the sophistication of the people living here centuries before colonization.  It shows they could build foundations almost 100 years ago better than today in Hovenweep. Our cultural heritage and awareness of native, ancient cultures. The historic evidence of advanced building farming survival techniques and the remains of so many structures. ---- Ancient history of Native America. Culturally significant, beautiful landscape. It preserves the heritage of Native Americans.  It makes a person really think and consider the magnitude of their heritage. People were here before us and we have a responsibility to maintain what remains for those who follow us.  We should live the places we visit and the people in them better. ---- The ---- ---- and maintaining them for us to see. The understanding that before us there are generations of humans and we are the ones to keep their memory. Explanation ---- and ----. There is a cultural history of the land and the first people who lived here. Very important. Awesome opportunity to learn about ancient native cultures. Presents solitude, wide open country ---- plus Native American structures. Preserving history of Native Americans. Keeping history alive. Excellent-very significant-brings history to life. Learning about Native culture and building practices and preserving these. History, culture, nature. The ruins. History and culture of the Pueblo's and Native Americans. Preserving the historic cliff dwellings from Native Americans so we can learn how they lived. To show the variations in cultural history. Rich Hy.  7-16-16 Mindy was awesome with lots of knowledge."
123,Wrangell-St. Elias NP & Pres,WRST,"Beautiful scenery and very well preserved by its visitors. Preserve large eco system. Education, beauty, saving glaciers. Rock and ice wilderness.  Preserve wilderness, substance, historic value. Historical and ecological. Wrangell-St. Elias are part of the great resource of national parks that are the birthplace of all Americans and visitors.  They must be supported and preserved. 0 Information and scenic enjoyment. I didn't really visit the Park itself. I Haven't seen the Park yet, so I can not tell yet. W-SENP has preserved large swaths of classic Alaskan natural and cultural resources. Vast beauty.  Some of the highest peaks there.  Ice fields need to be seen by all. It brought people to Alaska and is one of the most beautiful places in the world. To maintain national, pristine, appointed areas. The beauty of the mountains and scenery. ---- beauty of ----. The beauty of it. Display the wilderness before Western man came on the scene. Alaska! 2016 Historical, glaciers, awe-inspiring peaks, nature preserve and conservation. Largest untouched wilderness. Historical significance of the mine and how glaciers change over time. It's size and history are significant. In keeping these lands wild and natural. It's beauty-more reason to say how beautiful our country is! Very important to keep this park remote. The immensity of it. And the shear beauty. People can be exposed to this area's natural state. To protect the glaciers and mountain ranges educate visitors. Glaciers, ---- wildlife. This park covers an area which is significant in ---- of natural resources. The NSP is the most valuable under resources tourist attractions of the USA. It has so much information and has a history that means something to people. A heritage for future generations. As the last real frontiers, I believe it is very important to maintain our parts. Grandeur and beauty-signifies Alaska. I didn't realize the ---- were so big and that mountains are still growing taller. Just great. Natural beauty unspoiled by commercial development. Natural history and preservation. Preservation-do not commercialize. Preservation. Preserve space from development. This park is timeless. In a world where life is increasingly focused on instant gratification, timeless spaces are more important than ever. History and enjoyment of future generations. Important. It contains some of the most beautiful and majestic sights nature has to offer! I'm proud that this park is in the US! It's space. Nature. Preservation of pristine lands for future generations. Saving our National resources-conservation. The nature, the ---- for the native people who ---- to live here, and the knowledges of one of our very proud state. To keep wilderness alive. Very significant to visitors and those who live here. The glaciers, ice fields. Preservation of large masses of undeveloped land that includes naturally beautiful landscape and wildlife. Teaching all U.S. generations and international guests about our natural treasures. It is bigger than Switzerland. It's beautiful. Largest ice field. Wow!  A lovely place!  Children need to get outdoors, but poor and many non-white don't have money to get here. Very. One of the last truly preserved parks/wilderness in the world. Very important! It helps protect the environment and all beauty that the park holds. The glaciers/ice fields, the Alaskan wilderness, native Alaskan heritage, and mining history. The glaciers and beautiful land. Last over-reaching wilderness.  Making sure biodiversity isn't compromised due to postage stamp parks (see the Yellowstone issue). It's the largest with the most. Establishing a large nature preserve and protecting this gorgeous area. Preservation of wild land Alaska. Size, ice fields, wildlife, habitats. The beauty and wildness that is here is a national treasure.  We need to preserve the beauty. To preserve our environment for our future generations. Help create sensitivity around the importance of preservation and educate visitors around the diversity and complexity of this region. Environmental preservation.  Second largest UNESCO site. Glaciers, massive wilderness, history and subsistence culture. Great visit. Amazing-immense size, placement in relation to Canada's parks, glacier (disappearing). It has preserved the very essence of Alaskan wilderness. Vast wilderness. Bringing nature to the masses, education about need for preservation. Glacier preservation and education.  Great Junior Ranger program. History, beauty. It was so beautiful to see. Largest national park-wilderness area to be preserved for future generation. Learning experience and very knowledgeable staff.  Great film. Two of the highest mountains, glaciers. The significance of this park is to protect our wildlife and to help grow our environment. Best kept secret of the USA. Better understanding of impact of climate change. Glaciers, wilderness, rivers, mountains, isolation! Joseph is so good. Keep it wild, yo! Natural.  As is. Super. This is the best organized in every aspect and very good for easy citizen user. Wilderness at its best. Wilderness.  We need to preserve as much as possible. It is the largest National Park. An integral part of our history-an essential reminder of the grandeur of nature and the struggles/successes of folks working/living in these areas. Very significant. It's big and untouched. Historical heritage/contribution to Nation's growth through the mining of copper; awesome beauty of glaciers and terrain. Cuz Merica (Bald Eagles) every where. It's natural beauty and history.  Thank you. Future generations can enjoy the history and beauty. Keep open space culture and animals for future generations. To preserve and conserve. To show off and teach about the mine. Topography is amazing.  Kennecott mine is a historical landmark. Historic preservation. Amazing history and Alaskan history. Alaska wilderness-Glaciers! Connecting with past generations of Alaskans. This natural beauty, serene wilderness and ---- ----. It was important as a major natural site and historic mine. To preserve the history of the Kennecott copper mill as well as the ---- St. ----. Add more interpretive signs outside by each building.  Needs picnic tables. Remote beauty, available because it is now a national park. History of copper mining and it's ----. Natural beauty and resources, history of settlement and mining. Glaciers and mountains. The national significance of WSE NP is immense from a historical and recreational stand point.  Thank you for preserving it.  More conservation work should be done to the buildings although a lot is being done. Glaciers and mountains. Younger history than other places. Recreation access to back country mountain vistas historic mining era. Important history of Kennecott and the copper industry.  Incredible scenery and natural beauty. A beautiful part of Alaska.  ---- Alaskan who first come in this ---- ----  back again.  Will return thanks NPS. Natural beauty, unusual formations. Party. The beauty of this land and it's natural resources. This glorious park exhibits the rich history of industry and ice climbing in our great state. Besides it being incredibly beautiful, the town of Kennecott and learning about the mining, trains life there, etc.. Historical. The public/private land ownership and the quality of life here. It's the largest wilderness area in the world combined (with ----). Historical proof of Alaska as an economic ---- land.  Also, it is so wild and ---- and ----. Preservation of the beauty and wildness of our country for future and current generations. The beauty, grandeur, accessibility. It embodies the freedom of its people and the majesty of this great country. It's big, wild and the best. This like all the parks is a metaphor of what it means to be a citizen of the US.  It is all of us. A preservation of undeveloped scenery. Very high.  Well preserved historical site. Historical (Kennicott) beyond beautiful natural glaciers, mountains. To preserve the historical mining options. People around the world can enjoy and appreciate the natural wonders of this area, the glacier, mountains, rivers, and history. It preserves nature for posterity."
124,Haleakala NP,HALE,"A very unique park offering an array of species and unique landscapes. Symbol of Hawaii and its natural beauty. Excellent. The mountain. Nothing to do with us, this is Hawaii. Educational natural sciences, conservation for future generations. Protection on rare species of plants, fowl and insects. Natural beauty and preservation (especially for ---- species) for future generations. The Mana and scenery. The volcano. Incredible. Preserve some of Hawaii's natural beauty! It's beauty. Heritage. To protect the natural splendor of Hawaii. Natural beauty.  Protection of our natural resources. Waterfalls, rivers, trails - in mostly natural setting. Beauty, preservation. Not sure. Beauty. Beautiful nature. Sharing the unspoiled beauty of nature. A healing place with gorgeous falls. To expose people to the volcanic ecosystem. Beauty. Unspoiled Hawaii. Natural history. It's biodiversity and beauty. Do not know. Beauty of forests of Hawaii. Preservation of land. Giant mountain w/waterfall. Great history. Not known from Australia-very significant in terms of Hawaiian cultural history. Beauty. Waterfalls are precious. Preservations. Beautiful! Hawaii culture. This is a beautiful area worth preserving for future generations. No changes!  Just maint. The natural beauty of water and the land. Hawaiian culture. Easily the beauty! It represent the diverse nature of the country-geographic, cultures and spirit. Preservation of scenic trails with safe access. I understand this place is important so it must be protected. AWESOME! Beautiful hike! Beautiful sights and location. Culture/wilderness. Hard to say because the pools were closed. I saw no trash on the trail and surrounding area.  I was very impressed how well kept this trail is by the users. Preserve nature. To help people appreciate nature and preserve it. Culture. Minimal. Extremely beautiful. Hawaiian culture. Showing and explaining local features. Unique natural beauty. I don't know. Pools, falls, water access. Ocean, fauna and flora. The beauty of waterfalls and views. Historic, cultural, life time experience. Preserve natural resources. Special place. Native culture preserving it. Important part of national culture and traditions. It's so beautiful and very natural reminds you in the beauty of nature that hasn't been over developed. This park is important because it helps to preserve and help others appreciate nature. Serenity, ---- of water. Great. The volcanoes. Historical value to Hawaii culture-unique environment/species. National history.  The eco system the traditional Hawaiian story. Very good. It was the home of the Hawaiian Gods. Beauty of nature. Preservation of nature and history. Both cultural (history) and geographic features. Very good. Recreation, beauty. Beauty. Sightseeing-beauty. Identity of Nation. It is very educational in a number of ways.  Climate, habitat. Really good. Beauty, unique. The amazing history of the Park. Back to source; see earth creation. History, natural wonder. Unique road and view. It's variety of plants and it's ---- ----. Amazing crater. Protection of natural habitat for EVER."
125,Agate Fossil Beds NM,AGFO,"Very informative!  Enjoyed learning about the fossils and the Native American connection to this area. Preserve history for future generations to learn from it. It shows we are but passers through (as even these ""old bones"") and we need to respect the land and love living in it. Preserving Native American heritage and fossils, too! Unique fossils! Ancestral ----. It needs to be preserved. It is history and needs to be explored. The finding and preservation of fossils found in the agate area. The history of our ---- and all that has happened here. History of the early years on the planet. The preservation of fossil beds and education about same. I'm a big fan of NPS units.  All are important.  Here we learn about the past which can appeal to all. As someone who went to school for geology, I'm probably biased towards its significance from an ancient environment standpoint and paleontological contributions. Education for young people regarding geologic history and Indian artifacts. Great significance, both historically (Indian culture) and paleontologically! Indian understanding, fossils, agates all displayed well.  Wouldn't know about these without this home. Not just national, but international significance.  These fossil beds help recreate the entire picture of life on earth, including its fragility. Paleontological history; Native American history. To preserve fossil bed and educate.  Cook's Indian artifacts room was especially informative.  Good historic info. Outstanding examples of unique concentrations of Miocene fossils, and interpretation of Cook and the Lakota. Preserving geologic and Native American history; scientific research. Very important.  It took way too long to get here. Very as to history of the area of Western Nebraska. It was very interesting.  The displays and talking about the different animals that lived in early times. The history of Native Americans and significant contributions to paleontology. Showcase the fossil beds. 22 million year old fossils. Highlights amazing prehistoric ----. Fossils, and how they were discovered. Animal fossils in beds of rock.  Native American artifacts document the visits of Dakota chief Red Cloud and pioneer James Cook. Historical ---- study. The preservation of modern and ancient history is important. The Native American Heritage. Understanding past environments and how they have changed over time putting human existence and ---- into perspective. I think it's important for two reasons.  First, it's always good to know what came before us.  Second, by giving this place NP status, it can't be disturbed or ruined. The huge Paleontology find fascinating past Dino and pre-human.  Had no idea it was here. Further historic study of mammals. To preserve the culture of the Lakota People. Cultural history of the area to help us understand our past. Its preservation of the history of the area, Palentology and the history of life on earth ----. Very important.  Needs to advertise location.  Artifacts, fossils did not know-history-wonderful. Yes, it shows that NE is more than flat hills and provides links to our own fossil record. The park gave essential insight into the field of paleontology. Preserve fossil beds. Through the fossils, we can learn more about our past. The fossils here are significant to the world.  The Lakota treasures and history is not shared enough in the Midwest.  The artifacts were beautiful. Preservation and protection of rare fossils and native American Artifacts. History of fossils and Native American history. Very interesting, enjoyed it. Preserving natural land and historic information. 1. Unique fossil exhibit.  2. Original Indian artifacts. Ancient fossil beds, preserving and protecting what's here, teaching future generations about paleontology and other related science topics so as to inspire our next generation of scientists. Cook collection is VERY important-we should never lose this legacy-history. Fossils and Native American art are terrific. Geology!  Prehistoric life education, conservation of historical and geological resources. History of the world.  Cultural changes on the plains. It shows the diverse history of our nation and the large amount of scientific discovery it produces. Relationship of Native Americans and Cook family.  Cook family collection, mammal fossils. The paleontology ---- is excellent and the Cooke collection of Indian artifacts is truly UNBELIEVABLE.  World class and unique. To educate people of how our lands used to be versus how it is now.  Hopefully, some young people will go in these fields of study. Until I came to this park today, I had no concept of the treasures buried here. Fossil and geological history and exploration. Irreplaceable, Both ---- and the Indian history. Very neat for ---- and great information regarding fossils and the ---- ---- kids and adults alike all have something. This park is an absolute window into the past of our world first, then our nations. The Park gives us an excellent look into how our earth preserves history and give us an opportunity to wonder about the future.  It also presented a picture of a different culture and how to respect them. Indian culture and Fossils. Discovery of prehistoric mammals significance of relationship between white culture ad Indian culture. The park preserves a unique collection of fossils from the Miocene epoch.  The fossils show the behavior of the animals and the ecology of that times.  Also a unique collection of artifacts showing the relationship of the landowner with the local tribes. History of the animals that inhabited this area. It has international significance in documenting and interpreting the natural history of the planet. Preserving and learning about the creatures that existed in this area millions of years ago.  Natives. Helps everyone learn about the past.  Factual. Teaching about our past history. This park is a rare opportunity to observe fossils and American Indian culture in one place. Fossils and rich Lakota history. Ancient history of the area. Awareness of fossil history and role that James Cook had with Lakota. Excellent! Fossil history of our land.  Indian life with the settlers. Historical find of fossil of dinosaurs that were not known. To preserve the fossils, post-dinosaur but pre-human settlement. To preserve the history of our wildlife and fossils of them to know more about our earth and how it got to be. Show the kids the exciting finds that are right in their own state.  You don't need to go far to see important finds. The amazing fossils-such significance to our knowledge to our history. To preserve fossils of the Miocene period. It is good for fossils and for a history of the Lakota and Cheyenne. Priceless. I've already sent information about it on to family and friends insisting they visit this rare and fascinating NM. ---- exhibit anywhere as this has emphasized the relationship of culture to culture, culture to land has. Large amounts of mammal fossils found, preserve whose important fossil discovery occurred. Fossils and Cooks interaction with the Indians. Total of the geologic/natural history of the land the park contains. The best predictor of the future is the past.  Those that do not learn from the past are doomed to repeat it! The early life in American and how it shaped and affected life. Fossils and rock formation. Preservation of the fossils and surrounding lands.  The display of James Cook Collection is important. A real hidden gem, much beyond expectations in scientific significance.  I'm glad we stopped here. It provides information and preservation of American fossil record discoveries and preserves modern wildlife. The national significance of this park is the connection between the land, the animals, and the people over a long period of time. Learning how our part of the world was before man and also what animals were here and how they survived. To help show the history and significance of preserving fossils and important cultural aspects of our state. Very enjoyable!  A must see! One of the few places with fossilized remains of mammals from a certain time.  Native American ""artifacts"" are well preserved and in good condition. Paleontology science.  Culture.  Life on earth. The blending of natural history and Indian culture isn't found in other parks. Yes. Fossil record. Historic digs-local fossils. Interesting bridge between the mammoths and the dinosaurs. Not a clue. Preservation of history and natural resources. Preserving our natural and cultural history. Preserving the past to demonstrate that the cycle continues...things change, but remain the same and for our youth who see no value in anything that's not electronic-drugs, sex, rock 'n' roll. Really cool displays.  Enjoyed the movie.  Staff was great. The early discovery of fossils and changeover time-very interesting.  Also liked the bonus of the Indian relics. The fossil history, as well as the Native American artifacts and displays. Understanding the history of this area and how it fits in with the other fossil beds. Very high on learning about paleontology and history of our land. Early prehistoric discoveries. History of Native Americans and the white.  Fossil discovery. It helps us to understand all that has gone on in the evolution of animals and mankind. Outstanding-both the fossil beds and the Cook-Lakota relationships. Protection and preservation of fossils. Interest in geology. It's important for all people to learn about the paleontology history of our nation and the significance of this vast land. Preservation, education (history, culture). Preserving our natural history and learning about the past. Unique fossils. Few mammal fossils, timeline and change of area. Reveals our ancient history. The geological history of the land we live on and use is important to learn about and enjoy. Good experience.  Great for kids. History. Paleontological resources, history of paleontology, science education. History of things and events. Very high. Science and education are the keys to understanding of where we came from, who we are today and where we are headed tomorrow. Earth's history is important for everyone, the Indian's culture. Exceptionally important. Historical value.  Fossils of animals I've never heard of and also of relationships between two cultures. Historical, scientific, Native American Indian history. Paleontology and Indian history.  Cook Collection is amazing. Preservation of a unique feature and the ability for people to view it. Preserve history of fossils, etc.. The bone artifacts tell the story of this area millions of years ago.  The Indian artifacts show the history of past peoples of the area. The relationship with the Native Americans and the fossils that are an important discovery. History-fossils. Preserving and learning about history and wildlife. The Indian artifacts part of the James Cook Collection. Rare fossil beds. Wonderful combination of native culture and national history. The prehistoric history of living things that came before us is very important to understanding our past, present and future. A lot of creatures and things happened before people were here.  The world is not all about humans. I was surprised at the size, most resources/---- very shipped elsewhere so I wondered about the significance now. It gives us a glimpse of animal life in our nation LONG before it was a nation.  It also allows visitors to appreciate the local geology with agate samples on display. It's fossils. New information learned. Keeping alive the history of earth. History of area. Fossil collections are important to our history. The wealth of archeological remains that helps us understand the ancient history of our country. Education regarding ---- and ----. Fossils found in beds-mass quantity can only improve our understanding of the past. Its role in the understanding of prehistoric mammals. Opening up of the well, Indian cultures, Earth history through the fossils. The opportunity for cultures for coexist. Very interesting to ---- how things ---- and what ---- ---- ---- ---- the ----. Preservation of important geological and historical area. Remembering ---- of people ---- ---- ---- on to long ago.  Something we would rather ----. A record of our past preserved for the future and presented in an easily understood manner. Z fold fossils, birth of ---- ---- ----. 0 Excellent. Geological digs and discovery of fossils. Gives us a picture of what was and how we must care for our land ----/humans now! It needs a ---- of history us from little about and ---- shows western ---- ---- ---- that lived in this area. Preserving history. Remembering the history of the land and feeling as if you are walking side by side with the elders. The historical value and the preservation of fossil findings. They use fossils found here all over the nation. The Indian artifact exhibit and the fossils found in the park.  Thought the Indian items were tremendous.  Those should be highlighted. Discovery of fossils that explain the natural history of the region. Important fossil founding's. Great educational experience for kids. The fossil history and Native American history are invaluable to our national significance. Important for learning the history of our country. The fact of Mr. Cook finding the artifacts, becoming friends with Indians, just history!  Fascinating. The significance of showing the Indians as peaceful thoughtful Native American was so ----.  The ---- ---- were a cheesy on ----.  good staff. Amazing!  Loved it! The many fossils need to be preserved.  The Cook collection is outstanding. The movie and exhibits were excellent.  We are grateful that they have been preserved and showed with future generations. Scientific significance-ancient mammals ---- shown often cultural-everything possible to retain native culture needs to be done! The scientific exploration are critical to understanding our past and future. This park is a window into the past and critical to the education of evolution.  This park is a piece of our past. History/geology/life in the past-animals. Understanding the geological and biological evolution of the planet and this area in particular, and the important part the Great Plains area played. Fossil discovery and Native American history-enjoyed story teller and flute player presentations. Fossils of prehistoric animals-learning, seeing and the study.  Video was excellent! Significant geologic/fossil site, but the history of land owner (cook) and his collection of Native American artifacts given/gifted to him is incredible. The history was very good! This place is of national significance of because of the mammal fossil found, but also because of the relationship between Cook and Red ---- (museum). For future generations to enjoy and learn about history. This place is RICH in history from. History of ---- era life. History of positive relations with Native Americans by Mr. Cook and family. Native history just as important as fossil ----! Never knew this variety of animals roamed western US.  Interesting exhibit showing bones, teeth, and history.  Cook's Indian artifacts show their life and art. History of area. Incredible history, both human and mammal.  Wonderful park-a national treasure. Keep science and history alive for future generations. Many important clues to the past of out planet. Preserving and protecting fossils of the past for future generations. Shows how many animals evolved and preserved many in it's entirety. Geological findings of pre-historic creatures. The beautiful descriptive displays and info regarding the paleontology discovery in western ----. This park has preserved an important part of the history of our earth.  The Indian artifacts are remarkable and so much ----. Preserves natural history and makes it available to the public. One of a few phenomenal collections. The fossils that were discovered. To keep the history and legacy alive and to tell the slaves of our past. The archeological history. Rich history of prehistoric mammals. We can all learn something about our past, present and future through our nations park. 1. Unique fossils and scientific study of times past.  2. Artifacts of Lakota and others given as gifts to Cook. Geologic history and quest for knowledge. Indian artifacts and fossils. It's a great significance nationally, however it is of greater significance to the local region from a historical perspective and local historical value. Our prehistoric memory is important to our interpretation of current environmental events. Fossil, paleontology good stuff nice collection of native artifacts. To understand what came before us and to keep it for the future. Excellent archaeological history! History of ---- beds-Indian collection and fossil history. It exhibits the nature American heritage and also the friendship of the great James Cook to them. Prehistoric mammals, fossils and geologic history of our country can all be found of this marvelous park! Wonderful to see what was here before us. Love all the fossil sites. Archeology and learning beyond what we think we know (i. e., from tree roots to rodent burrows); how we build a narrative around what we want (vs. what is true) and impact to a people. Reminiscent of old, old times-learning about the past. They are not making any more. It is an example of what was many thousands of years ago compared to what the area is today."
126,Nez Perce NHP,NEPE,"Represents Indian history, which is under represented in our Parks. To help us all better understand the culture and history of the Nez Perce and their relationship to this area.  Beautifully done. The history of the Nez Perce people and displays were excellent. The displays on the Indian artifacts are excellent.  Ranger Jenny Howler was so helpful and informative. The first nation people/Native Americans are a very important part of our history as a nation.  We must honor and support their work and heritage, and encourage its preservation. It's important to understand the culture of others, esp. first peoples. Video needs to be more about the park and it's past. There are, relatively, so few public exhibits exploring history from and of the Native Americans.  It's vital that history and viewpoint is not lost. Nez Perce culture and history. It's part of our family heritage and culture.  It's a great        refresher for my kids and myself of where we come from. As a historical, educational site, honoring and teaching about the Nimipu people. Thank you for expanding my knowledge of  the Niimiipuu tribe!  BTW-why don't we call the Park Niimiipuu? Cultural history of the Nez Perce. I have been interested in American Indians my entire life.  I read books on the Nez Perce and Chief Joseph as a boy.  Great to visit! Remembering the original inhabitants of the USA. Extremely significant! Historical education, Nez Perce cultural education. It tells the history and culture of the Nez Perce people. Importance of Native culture. ---- Very important to North American history. Native Americans were given a raw deal, Joseph and people should have not had to go to Washington. People to become aware. Educational to help whites particularly understand American Indian culture. Understanding education reconciliation and justice for native peoples. Essential. Learning about Nez Perce culture and history. Cultural, historical importance of the people. The Nez Perce culture acknowledges the sacredness of all forms of life and our interconnectedness.  This park helps our nation remember these ancient ways so that we may transform our mainstream culture into a life of giving culture. The Nez Perce had dealings with Missionaries, miners, military, ranchers, dams, survived and now prosper. The interaction and history of the settlers and Native people. Teach people abuot the Nez Perce culture. To let the nation know the Nez Perce Indian is still here (2016). Culture (keeping culture of native people alive). To inform about the historical significance of the Ni Mi Pu and their rich culture.  To help restore their place in the modern world. To share the history of the Nez people. Historical and cultural education. Learn about living native cultures and their significance today. Nice to see so much tribal consultation. Opportunity to learn about gain respect for native American culture. Very important-describes history well. Very informative and interesting. This park is upheld a culture and values of their way of life.  I like that. Early American Indian history learning center. Education of Native Americans historic land/history. Ensure cultural and historical importance is maintained. I like the native peoples focus. Local cultural impact, larger history of the West and history of country. Teaching about culture. Teaching visitors the rich history of people of this land. The Nez Perce are an important tribe. To help people learn about the Nez Perez. To remember the REAL history. All states the story of Chief Joseph and Nez Perce. We need to remember we can never forget how we treated the indigenous peoples, so we can try not to repeat our failures. History of the Nez Perce tribe!  Protection of wild life. Great. Learning the NP ways. Great, very interesting. A very great park and very welcoming from the visitor center. To keep our history alive for other generations. Heighten understanding of the Nez Perce culture. The history of the Nez Perces and Lewis and Clark. Educational exhibits. Extremely important. I think just respecting the land. I think this park is significant because it provides an accurate understanding of the Nez Perce culture.  Very interesting! The Nez Perce are still relevant today. To remind us to whom this land belongs. Very educational. Very informative, well kept wonderful people. Native American history, westward movement, Gold, Lewis and Clark, trade, missionaries, survival. History we need to know and understand. Nez Perce people and chief Joseph. Excellent education of native culture. The Nez Perce Indians were involved in all aspects of Westward movement and more. Story of America. Preserves the Nez Perce culture and educates American people about their history, culture, interaction with Lewis and Clark. It shows how the culture came about and how it has been forced to blend with the whites.  It opens your eyes on the ----. Great job by ranger Peters, awesome. It explains a lot about the way of life for your people. Very!  My family's history! Our land and culture. Preserving the culture of the Nez Perce. The preservation of the Nez Perce culture. Very important more advertisement might be beneficial. Very beautiful with great chance to learn about history and different cultures. It is important to preserve the history and culture of one of the nations indigenous people. This is an important vital testimony to the noble culture who were here long before white culture, thank you. Keeping the Nez Perce tradition alive. Sharing the original culture and history of this region and showing it's value, education of European impact. Indians were in west first, Chief Joseph led them away from the calvary. Great opportunity to show cultures and learn history of native Americans. Historical perspective. History of Nez Perce. Important to celebrate the Nez Perce as a significant historical community still in existence. It gives an understanding of native Americans culture as it relates to Nez Perce.  It helped me understand a little of my heritage. The national significance of this park is that it preserves the history and enhances understanding of native peoples. It is important to honor the traditions, history and culture of the Nez Perce, of what was lost because of white man's arrival and what efforts are being made to recover and expand the knowledge of these to the younger generations. Learning about the Nez Perce people. To learn more of the past and present day Nez Perce tribe. Lest we forget how we dealt with the original ""first peoples"" of this land, THEIR story cannot be forgotten.  Thank you for helping us to remember. To educate. Strong, powerful places. There is not enough accessible history and contemporary knowledge about tribal nations for the general public.  This helps fill the gap. Native American history. Native Americans need to be recognized as saviors of the lands. That the Nez Perce were represented and their life explained. The roots of ancestors-information of traditional lifestyle. To educate the public on the heritage of this tribe of native Americans and learn how poorly treated they were. Culture of ---- ---- ---- fascinating and well done. To show the way that natives lived and took pride in their land using the resources they had, beautiful. Promote Nez Perce heritage. Indicates complex culture and history in the site where tribe lived. Didn't see too much about most famous Chief Joseph but I guess the place represents the diminished land base following 1877 war and fact tribe still exists. It provides a clear view of the Nez Perce perspective of their history since 1850's - 60's. Invaluable piece of indigenous/American history. History and preservation.  Appreciation of this land and our ancestors. It tells the story of how terribly native Americans were treated and cheated of their way of life by our government and it continues over now."
127,Big Cypress NPres,BICY,"Keep people informed of ----. Contribution to understanding of the Wetlands and endangered species (Panthers). The Everglades are a national treasure that must be protected at any cost. Very important educational tool for public. Presentation. Preserve and share this unique environment. Wild life and habitat. It is a unique eco system, nationally and internationally.  Plays a pivotal role in our fresh water system. One of a kind. Very ----. For wildlife and filtering of water. Ecological Preservation.  Wildlife habitat. The importance ----. Money well spent on our future. Preservation of land and animals. A great way to educate our youth about the natural world.  Also the ramifications of our life choices. Very good. Very important. Accessibility to wildlife. Very good. The value of the wetlands. Important. To inform us of wildlife and nature. It is unique in the world. Important. Wet lands. Very unique. Last of swamps. Animal life, the ---- take of the people in the area. It is a very nice stopping point on our trip, if he had more time, we'd spend it here. Conservation, explore the ---- of the world. Yes keep it going. Wildlife preservation-protection of the environment. To preserve nature. Very important. Saving our ---- land. Learning about the significance of the alligator was good. Everglades. Habitat preservation, wildlife management. Information. Opportunity to observe the wildlife in their habitat-need more! Preservation of everglades, education about importance of preserving precious resources flora and fauna. Preservation. Preserving and explaining the ecology of the Everglades ---- that ----. Unique animals and amazing views. Viewing animals, wildlife. 0 Availability to everyone. It helps us ---- ---- should ---- ---- ---- abused. It's great for all ages can enjoy the beauty of Florida for generations to come. Keep nature or ---- ----. Perfect example of how we should preserve virgin land in our country. Preserve nature/educate re: alligators and ecosystems. To learn to appreciate nature. This park celebrates our ecological diversity and encourages all Americans to protect our environmental treasures. HUGE part of ecosystem. Preservation of wetlands. Keep for next/future generations. Encourages us to appreciate nature. Protect water flow in Everglades. Environmental protection. Alligators. This is a unique ecosystem vital to the natural health of the area. Excellent opportunity to see Florida's wild life. Functioning ecosystem to be seen by generations. Helped me understand bio diversity and native culture. Excellent. Preserve the nature and animals. Water shed for Florida. Protecting the everglades. Protect wild animals and water. Protect water, wildlife, plants. Great history. Education. How natural it is. One and only ecosystem of it's kind. Opportunity to see FL ecosystem up close. Unique. Alligator. Education about SFL eco system. Presentation tribal lakes. Preserving the wildlife and allowing people to view in a safe manner. To show the importance of Wetlands. Wildlife plant. Movie excellent.  Preserve protects water-wetland resource and eco system which is unique in North America. To protect our River of Grass for all wildlife and prosper. Eco preservation. Conservation of wild life (plants and animals). Keep FL natural and beautiful. Nature info. Seeing natural habitat of ---- other wildlife. Preservation of animals and plants. Preservation. Environment. History passed on. Very important. To inform people about wildlife. Natural environment. Seeing the Everglades and protecting the area. Along with the Everglades ---- Great! Preservation of eco-system. Introduces people to another part of the Everglades. Preserving ---- wildlife heritage. Excellent vary to ---- the nature and keep ---- places protected. Preservation. Preservation of the unique species and beautiful scenery. To maintain the land and ---- experience. Education on local wildlife. Educational great!! Important. Very important to understand-this facility helps show and understand it's importance. Preserving national habitat for future generation. To educate the younger generation and continue the importance of preservation. Wildlife preservation-thank you!! I loved this especially to take my family. Huge this is unique and very important to the US. With development these parks are  essential. Make people familiar with the nature. Preservation of nature. Preserve ecosystem and teach the next generation. Save the everglades! A ton of historical significance plus a unique environment. Education; preservation. To show of nations people.  The importance of national resources. Historic. The protection of the Everglades, Cypress, animals, fowl, insects, flowers and water supply. Preserve for future generations. Promote environmental awareness. Provide recreational facilities. Animal and water conservation. To educate on wildlife in Everglades. No. Preserving the wildlife and this natural habitat. Presentation of Cyruss Forest. It hold another piece of nature and history. To teach about alligators and learn about wildlife. Remedied us to be good stewards of the water and land, over natural resources. Everglades ---- ----. Jungle diversity, unusual plant communities for the U.S., rare protected species. This is a unique eco-system that needs preservation. Preservation of natural area. Water flow. Preserving species like Fla. panther and so land isn't commercialized. Everglades fresh water ----. Preservation of our national resources, education re plants and wildlife and ecosystem. Very interesting Ranger. Learning about nature. Education, preservation. Education, water protection. To see Florida in a more natural state rather than the urbanized parts. To save wetlands and wildlife habitat. To preserve wildlife and protect parts of the environment. Awesome. I love nature so it is perfect to see animals free in their own habitat. To preserve nature and teach. Very important. Preservation and education. Raises awareness about biological preservation. The only habitat of it's kind in continental U.S. Very important. Wild life in SW Florida. Would like overnight canoe and more hiking trail.  Multi use and preserving the beautiful everglade. To observe the nature of this particular area. It's a great, easy way to see some highlights. Preservation. To view and educate our children. Excellent. Preservation. Protected lands with multiple uses."
128,Castillo de San Marcos NM,CASA,"A visual look at our history as a Nation, a hands-on view of their abilities to establish themselves in any environment and their living needs. It's part of the founding history of our country! Earliest in history-I learned SO much!  Didn't realize, so very glad we visited. 1st European settlement catholic influence. Helps us understand how our country was settled/developed, influence of various countries and cultures. Oldest settlement in N. America. Talking about the history of our nation, the impact then and now. More history is good. Oldest of ---- offers insight into national history. Spanish/Indian history. Bulwark against English then Spanish. Very important, keep up the good work! Preserve history. ---- Provides an expensive history and foundation of our country. Draws attention to complexity of the colonial period and Floridian history. Keep history alive. The national significance of the park is is the history and the men's life and how and they were and how they were home sick. It's history and ---- fact ---- fort was never taken by force only by negotiation as treaty.  Impressive. Need more displays. Need more displays. Oldest Masonry Fort-well maintained. To learn about St. Augustine. Confirms that Spaniards were the first to be in Fla outside Native American. Historical value. The natural ---- was not conveyed. More exhibits. A tie to our earliest historical fort shows the transition of the area between countries that controlled FL. Nice can use more restroom facilities. Yes, It is historic site. Complicated history of our nation important to understand and its fascinating! At Center of Florida History. Very significant in our nations history. Excellent history. We must always remember where we came from. It is a very educational and cool sight. Everchanging while increasing it's significance to the nations it served. Very important to know about history. Very nice and educational. Extremely important and of course unique. Learning about our nations history. One of a kind historical site!  Must save for historical significance. Outstanding contributions. Love this Park. Great land mark in history and I love it here. Nations history. The history involved, and how many nations used it. Current day display of the value of preservation.  The value and importance of learning from our past ---- for young people to know history and love it. Excellent presentation. Incredible history at this sight.  Anyone with the opportunity should visit this monument. Part of history and that of other countries. This was the beginning-very informative. Excellent speech from ranger! Fortitude, strength, history. Great info for a Floridian like myself. History of everything. History/education. It gives us appreciation for our ---- and freedom. Transition from Spanish to British. Very good. Very significant history. Wonderful conservative place to know American History. It's long running history. Hiring of the settlement of the ---- U.S. Preserving a historic structure and interpreting it's history. Historic/educational. The 1st city created in our country, battles and reasoning about our identity as a sobering nation. Very good, very important to visit to learn history. Protection of the ---- world residence. It is at the core of our nation's birth. History. It memorializes the start of this great country and the sacrifices to keep it. Opportunity to be educated about ---- U.S. settlement-explores and Native Americans. To show history. How the Spanish played a role in the development of our country and attempted to keep shores safe. The Castillo De San Marcos is in itself a time line at ---- history impacted by the actions of Spain, France, England, America and others. To learn history. Especially for Florida is ---- and school children this and much value. ----! History of the U.S. begins here! The Spanish colonization of Florida. Preserving and learning from history for future generations. History of FL and St. Augustine. You need to know how you got to NOW to understand how well get to THEN. It is a crucial piece of Florida's history. Remember our beginnings. Top 10. History reenacted, remembering the past. Foundation of our nation. Very important for my kids education. The Park offers a ""hands on"" history lesson. It reinforces the history of the founding of our nation. To show history. Very important because it's so early in our history. Shows military in the era. Protecting Fort where Spanish established St. Augustine. Very important. ---- The creation this for helped establish and protect the oldest city in the U.S. How old it was! Original old historic landmark. Oldest of it's kind in existence. The ---- cultural layering of the ----. 0 0 The oldest masonry fortification in US. History. Historical. Historical. It shows the struggle of the European powers to central Florida and their impact upon our history. Exemplifies early history of USA and state of Florida. An appreciation for those who founded this great multicultural country. Preserves and focuses attention on early Spanish ---- influence and conflict between empirical powers of the ----. It's been here since Europeans have been in FL. Being the oldest fort in America; very historically important. Words cannot express this. Early Colonial history-concern raised for Indian displacement. Let us have a sense of our history and how hardy we were.  Our sense of country. The fort was used to defend the citizens. It's in one of the oldest ---- in the U.S. It is a beautiful place and education to take our family and friends who come to visit from out of state. Love the lighthouse. Nations first settlement, history of how people defended themselves at fort, relations with Indians, early architecture."
129,Upper Delaware SRR,UPDE,"ZG Museum and scenic river. Our nation needs to see the beauty of our country, to help us distress and be productive as ----. The history of our nation. To give and pressure the history of a cultural ---- who influenced our ---- of our nation. Introducing a significant 20th century writer and film maker. The background of one of our greatest authors of western novels and fishing articles; Zane Grey. Historical dark of well unknown ---- and sportsman. Beauty of the Delaware River. Fun for family ----. Zane Grey home, Delaware River, Revolutionary War. Very important. Preservation of nature, natural resources. Keeping wildlife accessible to people who may not normally appreciate it. Love the river. Literary history. It was good.  Best ranger in universe. Very important. The history behind it from the early revolution days to the Zane Greg museum. Demonstration ---- nature is so close and wonderful.  Especially in relation to NYC. The Delaware River is. I couldn't figure that out. The historical significance of Zane Grey's legacy preserved for generations to come, important to national pride.  I will write in a ----. The Delaware River and Zane Gray museum. A free flowing river Zane Gray Museum was very interesting too! Rafting. River. Doing a great job. It was a great experience. The river. Embracing and respecting nature. Zane Gray museum-local author. Historical relevancy.  Knowledge not shared in a public setting, yet very important. We only went to the Zane Grey Museum.  It was very interesting.  We wanted our grand children to see it. Do you even know who Zane Grey is?!  This is the coolest place for adventures and western fans. Rich history, naturally beautiful. Zane Grey, American novelist-started the Western era in books and movies. Beautiful river area rich with history-and zone gray is an American icon! Information about a famous author. We came due to our interest in the ---- bridge. We were ---- with the ---- descriptive ---- Zane Grey Museum-important literary figure Roebling Delaware Aqueduct-important architecture/hist. A peaceful stop for me with SEVERAL interesting features.  Of particular interest to me was the ---- bridge. Preservation of natural resources, relaxation, place for hiking, boating, camping, driving, historical preservation. The historical and cultural educational opportunities especially concerning the 18th century and early 19th century, are abundant, but the campground lends ---- to the experience. History of Delaware River.  Zane Gray historical figure. American culture and history! Learned about Zane Grey-his personal and professional life and his many interests-baseball, dentistry, travel, photography, writing. Keeping the river clean and intact. Its beauty and how accessible it is. Zane Grey is a cultural icon. Zane Grey is famous and interesting. Historical, recreational. Preservation of history. Very significant. Writer who was significant and brought stories to life in movies. Grey was a writer who impacted an era when we wanted to know more about the settling of the West. Preserve nature in the wild.  Preserve historical sites. Bald eagle habitat, free flowing recreational river. Great writer of the past.  This house helps all to know his writing expertise. I think it is quite high and valuable. To foster the great talent of such a prolific writer is very worth while.  His stories have entertained young and old and will do so for generations to come. Museum was very interesting, nicely arranged, easy to follow, Susie was very cordial and friendly.  Eager to answer questions. The beautiful Layawuyan River. Very good. History and career paths. Preserves wild places-preserve historical sites. I had heard of Zane Grey Trail, but did not know about either museum.  They were good. Bald eagles, the river. River, wildlife, recreation. This Park is significant because of the recreation and because of the Zane Grey House."
130,Mississippi NRRA,MISS,"Industry at the top of the Mississippi, story of human settlement and impact to the natural environment.  Geology, nature. History of Minneapolis, understanding human impact on rivers and water ways. How people are shaped by the river, city, mills, logging etc.  The river is important as N. American's biggest water shed. Fabulous display of river power and dam and lock construction.  Very historical. Sacred to Native Americans Preservation of Native prairie and Oak Savannah, connection to Mississippi River. With the exception of one modern office building Coldwater looks very much the way America may have looked    as it was expanding into the Louisiana Purchase. It is a partnership park with state, city, county and the like and it is located within an urban corridor which is unusual. It's a beautiful place to be in nature in the middle of the city. Great view of the natural habitat very close to the City. Free access to nature within the City. Protection of the historical Mississippi River Banks. Native American culturally significant. One of the first locks and dams on upper Mississippi.  St. Anthony Falls importance in development of Minneapolis, historically. Nature. Mississippi River, natural beauty. Historical significance of the spring. Historical significance of the spring. The connection to native Americans and that history marks this part very special to us.  We LOVE how quite it is and the free parking! Near Fort Snelling.  History of native people that lived here before settlers.  Habitat and nature that existed before development. The Mississippi River is our country's quintessential river!  ---- for 40% of all our birds; essential to the ---- of cities from Mpls to New Orleans. This park is a fine example of an industry that became outdated because of modern shipping and energy. It is keeping the history of historic Mpls intact. Ecologically important and historically. It's the only waterfall on the Mississippi. It's a great vantage point and place of history for our nation's great river-the Mississippi. The river has been a resource for development of this country.  We need to preserve the resource. Historically really cool.  Good place to get out of the city.  Love this park!  Love that dogs can swim! The economy of the city was developed around the St. Anthony Falls.  The locks are an important part of the history-and the scenery. Coldwater Springs ---- a VERY DIVERSE MULTI CULTURAL AND MULTI TRIBAL COMMUNITY AND MN FIRST SCHOOL OPEN TO ALL CHILDREN this is what should be CELEBRATED HERE! Exceedingly important."
131,Delaware Water Gap NRA,DEWA,"Beautiful place to enjoy. Keep green spaces available to enjoy. To preserve natural heritage for all to enjoy. Enjoying outdoors with family staying active. A chance to walk through history with the logging history site provides leading to the development of park system. (I don't know nothing about it). The nature. The river. The view, nature, wildlife. Gap in mountain. I think our country would be a withering wasteland without protection of areas of vital ecological significance. Natural resources, proximity to major metro areas and cultural history. I am so grateful this area has been preserved for all Americans to enjoy. It has a beautiful clean river surrounded by mountains or hills, nature, conservation, it divides two beautiful states. National treasures for its beauty and unique geology. Natural beauty.  Location. Preserves the region and provides access to a unique region of NJ. Highly accessible to people from urban areas and allows them to experience nature. History surrounding Delaware River. Fantastic-glad it's preserved for all to enjoy! To preserve the gap and areas surrounding it.  To keep the falls, mountains, trails, available for others to see. Nature and beauty. Nature at its best.  Lots of old-boy scout camps where boys got their first experience with nature. This park gives the opportunity for people to learn about and enjoy their environment in an area that keeps the environment around them safe, preserved and still very appreciated. Waterway-important era and historical. The waterfalls are spectacular. The beauty and history. Very good. I am glad this facility is here so my child can see, enjoy and learn about nature and our open spaces. Outdoor opportunity. Enjoying nature and family. Beautiful waterfall. Natural beauty. Country appreciation of a ---- for nature. Recreation around Delaware river, park rangers are excellent! Education and preservation. Beautiful microclimate, easy access. Very significant. Very significant as our children learned about nature. The beautiful waterfalls and trees. Secure nature. Preserve nature. Waterfalls two times. Beauty of nature. Preserving natural landscape and species. Preserving natural landmarks and beauty. It is a fitting tribute to our national hero, Dingman. The falls. Conservation. Nature reserving. Ecological preservation. It gives people the opportunity to appreciate nature. Nature for our kids. The river. Because the division of the two states, and memorial parks in the area. The beauty. The river. Showcases the natural beauty that this country should continue to maintain. It is a landmark to our independence and a natural monument to liberties and democracy. Contributes to the vast variety of parks. People to have fun on the river. Because of the beautiful falls and river with gorgeous nature. To embrace the natural beauty of the outdoors and appreciate nature. Awareness and preservation of nature. Great place to spend the day. Is great.  These parks are great for our children and grandchildren.  A national heritage! It's a very beautiful treasure. The lake represents the union between two states, NJ and PA. The Delaware Water Gap that divides NS and PA is a great chance to learn and have fun on the neighbor state. Free ---- to nature and ---- beauty for all. If only there were more national parks that discuss the plants/animals life and ---- history of tribes in the region. Importance of Delaware River. Clean and calming, a good place to be relaxed. The river. Delaware water ----. Natural beauty. Historical location in the country. Very clean, very scenic. Nature and serene. It gives a place to rest. It is necessary for people. Communication and family gathering is the significance of this park to al it's visitors especially my family. Probably the nicest park in this area. Getting back to nature. Explore nature and preserve it. Natural environment. Family time no service off grid fun. Special agent Laura Buce was amazing at explaining the history of Crater Lake.  It's a beautiful place to visit. All of the national parks are great. This was a GREAT idea to preserve the area once ---- Island fell through. Love all the falls, it's free!! Pride in our resources-natural beauty. Pride in history of parks. Recreation. Roosevelt trees. Beautiful waterfalls. More info on water power and mills. Maintaining wilderness and nice sights. History and beauty of this nation. One of the best places in New Jersey. Historical preservation, and ---- to educate youth. To keep the garden in the state, last bit holding on. Beautiful and accessible. Pennsylvania history. Proud to be American. Nature preserved. The waterfalls. This was my first time and I loved it.  I will definitely come back again and invite friends and family. Close to nature.  Not crowded. Very nice. It is a rare treasure of natural beauty in an increasingly over developed world. Scenery, hiking, recreational facilities. Preserving wild life and area. To get people out doors to enjoy nature. Nature, history of native Americans, wild flowers. Roots-how it started. Highlights beauty in PA. Beauty. Preservation of natural resources. Thankful for places to enjoy God's creation. Helps people to remember the nature and teach them to preserve it. Delaware River-Revolutionary war and beautiful scenery. Preserve wildlife, maintain the Delaware river. Preservation of nature use of outdoor recreational activities. It's a national treasure. Appreciate nature around US. Unknown. Not sure, just passing through. To learn about  nature and preserving there sights. Use and we ---- and take what wasn't there with you! Natural beauty, nature, being close to nature. Historical-and now recreational as well. Recreational opportunities at the Delaware and AT. Preserve wildlife and maintain the Delaware water gap. A past time, readily to be seen and understood. Historic value/education. History/natural beauty. Historic representation of how time has changed.  Great for educating younger people about simpler times. To show you the way things were. Very important. A+ trail. Preserve nature for all generations. Beautiful outdoor environment! Indian culture (learning about). Bringing people out of their homes to experience nature and appreciate it more. Great. Keeping nature the way it was, clean. History of Native Americans and Dutch Settlement around the area and beautiful views. Beautiful. Established for a dam, but made into recreation! It's very important to have this national park so close to urban areas."
132,Fort Frederica NM,FOFR,"All history is impt and should be remembered. Played ---- in American ---- Educate. Fort Frederica tells the story of early English Colonists in America. Great significance. Colonial American settlements significant because of the importance of British occupation and influence in preserved history.  America before it was America. This is where there was a historic Fort that was well preserved and ---- ---. Very significant. It provides such terrific history and appreciation of our great past and history. All history should be preserved. Great example of early colonial history. See how people lived and were protected in that period in time. The battle and the old scenery. Early history of our nation and conflicts with Spain.  Helped establish rice farming in the area. The colonization and history of the Americas by the world powers at the time. Historical. To show and explain the history of Georgia. History. It's very interesting and learning environment to learn a lot of history. American history. To learn of what it took to make our nation. Great significance of how we are English and not Spanish speaking in Georgia. Colonial history of the US. Huge! Early settlement in colony of Georgia.  Focus on the people, not the military. Great. Early American history, much around is later, even civil war. Historical reminder. Most expensive British fort ---- in North America. Very informative. Formation of our nation; establishing a good relation with native Indians. To understand the early history of the areas; settlers way of life. Introductory movie was very helpful. Seeing how tools were made, houses built as well as the town buildings. What life was like-homes, business, for ordinary people. History of British and Spanish hostilities and founding of America. This reminds us about where our nation came from, also is vitally important in our youth's education. Early Colonial settlement. I love the fact that it is so clean and the employees staff are very friendly. To each of our history and keep history alive. Yes. Colonial GA history. Informed me about something I knew nothing about or even existed. History. Hispanic background of settling Georgia and the battle for colony rights with Spanish. Highly significan part of Southern U. S. history. Learning about the settlement of this area as well as Battle of Bloody Marsh. Very important to GA being in U. S. and not taken by Spanish. It's the beginning of GA, an original colony I think the park does a great job of showing how they lived. Historic town/settlement, and the reason it is there (protect from conflict). Lovely park. Understanding of life in this area at this time. Critically important to Colonial and U. S. history.  Without Fredericka, ---- would be ----! Fair. History of forming our nation. Learning about history of our country.  I really enjoyed it. Preservation of a part of the history of Georgia's coast. The fort and the barracks. The history. Defending the line of USA from Spanish. Gives an excellent understanding of colonial settlement configuration. All history has value. Historic value. Yes the history was great to read about. It shows one way/one tour country was settled.  History! Really tells the story of how the English Colonies were informed-and why I'm not speaking Spanish today. Tells a pretty unique story of the Colonial period. Provide history of island. Early history that determined permanence of ""English"" control. Events occurring here are part of the history leading to the formation of the USA. American history. Amazingly important in the formation of the earliest colonies.  We were unaware of its significance in rebuffing the Spanish. Southern-most British outpost against the Spanish and successfully defending against numerically superior army. The English, Scots, and Native Americans fighting off the Spanish arriving from Florida. Beautiful. Very educational.  Important part of the settlement and origin of our nation. Demonstrates the functionality of the community within a defense fort. Excellent depiction of Frederica town site.  Explaining examples and story of the film was very helpful. Brings very good knowledge, and learned to appreciate the history. A historical settlement that won a final battle with Britain. Helps us understand the beginning of American history-and who/what was here prior to the British. Learning about our nation's beginning in the southern U. S.. New insights into social reform. Preserving our history. History of our nation. Part of GA and U. S. history-awesome. Shows what early civilization was like. Very important. Yes, very! Yes.  Keep up the good work.  Thank you. Important to teach the young about the early settlement of the area. Informative to public re ---- and battles fought here. I enjoyed it-great to see the town's layout and active archeological project. Gives appreciation of just what our forefathers went thru. The battle is significant how St. Simar was established and grew to what it is today. Very interesting. It is physical evidence of the first American settlement in ---- Fascinating to see actual things that have been preserved so ----. Interesting history ---- sites ---- film is excellent. History of lower USA. Very informational, loved the trails. English background-eventually becoming part of USA. It has value because it was one of the first colonies in the south. Knowing and understanding the colonial history of the Southern United States its early relationship with Spanish territory. Preserving history. Colonial history conflict between U.K. and Spain/how colonists lived. Significant in development of USA. Good look into history of British/Spanish conflict for land. History is important. Show ambition and perseverance of early settlers.  English ----. Very enjoyable visit.  Learned a lot of things that I never knew about Fort Frederica. Fun history, seeing a town that was built for a war, then ----.  Fascinating location. Preservation of history and education. The British settlers history towards the Spanish settlers of ----.  It is absolutely powerful, involved and needed. The park serves as a reminder to its citizens of the people who came here to start a life and protection of the fort and soldiers. Wonderful history. Yes. The fact is an artifact of pre-revolutionary America and the international politics of the early colonial period. Our group appreciated the historical significance and the reservation. 0 Teach history. The park is historical, beautiful, and documented well. It is a nice relax environment and is a memorable event.  Forever ----. It is to remind people of our past and how lucky we are to be free. Very important to the ---- ---- and ----.  A cornerstone of the history of the area. Yes. I'm from Florida, been to Ft. DeSoto, pulled the two together. Early establishment of country. Preservation of history, and education. Sharing American history with my grandchild! If nothing else, it shows the diverse beauty of our country. Show history. Both Neil and Randy were wonderful.  Knowledgeable, friendly and outgoing! History of early colonies and Georgia and USA. Imperative historical value for future generations to appreciate the cost of their previous benefactors. The history it shows. Historical significance and way of life in the settlement of Frederica.  Historical events that shaped the country. History of preparedness of our borders by water. I live in St. Augustine and while I've been to the fort there didn't know the connection between Frederica and St. Augustine-enjoyed learning about that. Preserve history. The significance was to learn about Fort Frederica and the Battle of Bloody Marsh. This park helps teach about life early in American history and brings it to life. Historical. Good representation of how Colonialism started in the South. Historical. Keeps history alive; provides educational opportunities for students. The British asserted their authority over the Spanish in Britain's attempt to claim land in the southeast. Untold story-I only know about St. Augustine. Local and national importance. Love it and love the colonial history.  Thank you! Very historical. Very enjoyable.  Volunteer was quite nice and helpful. Early British Colonization. To remember the history and what happened in the past. This is the only Federal Park celebrating GA's colonial heritage.  Most folks don't even remember that GA was one of the original 13.  It was established ---- ----. This is important for kids to know about the history.  We need to protect the. I love any thing about our history and the struggles they endured. It show cases a significant time in our nation's history, and offers a look at a time/way of living long gone. Held British soldiers and Britain's position vs the Spaniards. The establishment of ----."
133,Valley Forge NHP,VAFO,"George Washington and continental army trained to be excellent soldiers.  Kept eye on British soldiers in Philly. Able to visualize hardships of winter encampment and therefore commitment of ordinary here to having freedom. We have to preserve historical sites from Washington's era.  Our country was born in these sites. The significance is huge, both looking at the nat'l security of a young nation, as well as commercial and ag aspects.  Native history could be highlighted a bit more. To educate the history of Valley Forge to the people and explain the importance. Dedication to a cause. The preservation of the continental army. Historical value. Review of countries history. Very high significance. Preservance, hang on by your fingernails. The American revolution, George Washington headquarters, just to name two.  So much of the history of USA began here. The birth place of the US Army and effective ---- ---- through ---- work and determination, ranger knowledge was great. Huge importance to revolutionary war history.  Wonderful green space. The heroism of this place is very special-if not for the ---- here we may not have a country. It teaches the importance of our foundation and lets us see where it happened. Amazing history of USA. It's where we became an army. We feel if the Army had not come to Valley Forge to regroup and retrain, the outcome of the war might have been different. Extremely cogent to understanding the history of our revolution. Memorializes the men, women and children that persevered.  Shows where Washington shone most brightly. Educate on war in 1776-1778. A vital part of revolutionary war. Has to do with our founding as it relates to the revolutionary war and independence. Turning point of war due to training of the army. The birth place of the U.S. Army. To show and teach to our youth the value of remembering the history and passing it on to generations to come. A hallmark/reminder of the struggles faced by our brave soldiers in ultimately gaining independence from Britain. Historical. It had a big part in the development of our country and helped shape who we are. Early American history-still alive! Significant to the gaining of run freedom. We need to continue to teach our citizens the origins of our country.  Valley Forge does a good job in their contribution. History-Washington. To make people, families aware of the significance of Valley Forge and the Revolutionary War. Perservance in the ---- of hardships to continue fighting for what they believed in."
134,Timucuan Ecological & Historic Preserve,TIMU,"Very good preservation of slave plantation. Given a balanced view of slavery and idea of life before the Civil War. Very significant. No opinion. No opinion. Interesting glimpse of Florida life 200 years ago. Gives understanding of Florida's encounter with Europeans. Historical significance is so very important! Long term protection of the tidal environment and history of ----. French exploration and settlement in an area dominated by the Spanish at the time.  Interaction and impact on Timucuan tribe. Great history of plantations, slavery, and Spanish occupation. Park gives meaning to original ownership of area by various countries, more importantly, what slavery was really like and the horror of slave ships. Learn about French colonization attempts and Timucuan people. This Park shows the horrors of slavery in American.  It is vital to hear an ---- view of this institution. Gives another aspect to history of St. Augustine area besides Spanish. Earliest history.  EXCELLENT. Keeping part of our land wild not developing it. Great education about slavery-eye opening! First French stronghold. The understanding of the French influence vs. the Spanish.  Early history. Thank you! Historical fort and pre French and Spanish influence. Displays brought history to life-children loved the fort! Historic fort in beautiful area.  Displays show Native American/colonial living/working areas.  Lots of information on native wildlife. History of area-people and animals-good combination of past and present-kids were VERY engaged. Native culture varies from area to area.  Great visitor center displays. History of North East Florida at Fort Caroline. More importantly the conservation of ---- natural ---- for wildlife. Great displays on local tribes and how they lived-adults AND kids learned a lot. History of French and Spanish interaction in FL. Slave history. Hopefully helping as learn from the mistakes of the past. Slavery, even with a benevolent owner, is still NOT freedom.  I liked learning about a black woman's stories of plantation ownership and management. Very high. Slavery. Religious freedom. Part of the founding of our country. This is an important part of our history.  Although this is not something we want to discuss it is still important to understand. Tumucuan natives, Fort Caroline. Important early history of U.S.  Fall out from religious persecution large preserved wetland ecosystem. Important part of our nations history. Historical, learning about society-archeological. Great! American culture and heritage.  Africans participation in the development of America's culture and society. Wetlands and ---- history. Nature and history of Ft. Caroline. The historical plantation and quarters. Birth of nation-how it all began. French settlements. It directly impacts my personal heritage, culture. Jacksonville's history is overall missing from ---- and this is a great ---- ----. Life style during time period slavery, economic. Plantation history. Teaches about plantations, their slaves and the area. The docents are excellent.  The script for exhibits small and sometimes confusing. Early settlers, interaction with natives. Importance in history of Spanish ---- and ---- of slavery in FL. Important in learning the horrors of America's slavery program. It's part of history of the reform and is very important to maintain. Excellent. Historical view of slavery at the time. A lot. Part of our history that needs to be told. Gullah, plantation, nature. Preserving the history of the Timucuan people. A gem park.  First France settlement. An inside look into the disturbing institution of slavery. Education re: slavery in FL. For people from Seattle WA it was a sight to behold! Heritage trail importance. Park rangers were so helpful and great. Slave labors and measurement of 1/4 acre. Deeper understanding of slavery in the South. To educate/remember the first French colony. Excellent-informative. History of plantation during Spanish era and after. To show and tell the history of the US, to preserve our cultural sights and recreational opportunities. Fort Caroline Colony, ---- Indians memory, Salt marsh. African heritage in the area (Duval County). Learning our US history, the good and bad. Very high significance in our history. Info and history slave labor. Preservation of FL. wilderness/eco flores and French, first ----/slavery history. To share the story of slavery. Love the audible. History it is very significant. History, multiple years. History. Interprets plantation life in Florida. The history of slavery there are not many places where you can still see slave houses. History of African American's and plantation owners. Everything great history. History of slavery and plantation system. History of slavery in our country. Slavery history information. Thanks to Carl for great history information and being so welcoming. The Kingsley story and Anna in particular is amazing. To maintain history and an appreciation of our past. To teach about French history in FL. Not sure. No. First colony. Not sure. History. Keeping a green space near and when area and preserving the history. Native people, French occupation, natural history. First European settlement seeking religious freedom. Taught me about the history of what happened in this area.  Also gave me good info on the ecology and history of the preserve. Very significant.  Religious freedom is important. Awesome part of national pride and our great country. Historic value. Historically significant as the first French settlement and significance of religious freedoms. Original French settlements. History of the Indians here and the French and Spanish historical significance to the area. Indian history here.  Significance of French and Spanish influence in this area."
135,Everglades NP,EVER,"Very important, one of the most unique eco systems in the country and world. The only Everglades in the U.S. Largest tropical wilderness in U.S.A., wilderness East of Mississippi.  This is  some thing we need to work together to preserve. It gives us a glimpse of the past, how pristine our country was and how God created a beautiful and balanced world. Legacy for all future children and generations. Flow of water to help keep things in balance, wild life and preservation of lands. To maintain the wildlife unexplored the Manatees, Crocodiles and Birds for ex. Unique eco system, origins of State of Florida, Alligators and Crocs!  But that is  not the whole story. Everglades are a natural treasure-had never ---- ---- ----. This landscape and wildlife are unlike any other on earth.  This place must be protected and preserved for every one to experience. Preserves land and animal environment. Main V.C. is very good.  Flamingo, Shark Valley, need updates, very old. I think that this parks significance of is very high because, there is no other place like it in the world. This park is beautiful, peaceful and it's survival is SO IMPORTANT to water quality in S. Florida.  Ranger talks are important for visitors. It's a one of a kind.  Eco system.  Magnificent wildlife and waterways. There is not enough space.  This is a great park!  Need people in charge who care!  Quit making excuses!  Either part of the problem or part of the solution! Preserving site. The animals and ecosystem. Habitat preservation. To protect wildlife and mangroves. Ranger very helpful. A unique sub tropical eco system in the U.S. and UNESCO site. Wild life and eco info. Keeping part of American Wild and unchanged for humans and the animals. Variety of animals; ecological impact an area-not much has been done to improve area since last big hurricane. The specific fragile eco system, need to continue Everglades restoration. Any open space is important to our country. Need to preserve Everglades. To help preserve what is left! Estrange to be left alone. Once one of it's kind in U.S. preserving natural environments. Protect our national heritage and aquifer. Wetlands, waterways. Preservation of nature. Preservations of habitat and wildlife. Protection of a unique watery eco system. Very such an ---- place ----, to have the chance to experience it. It is telling us how one eco system is doing and hopefully we wont destroy it.  We had to conserve, something congress could learn! Wild places are significant not just for our survival, but spiritual well being ---- ----. Critical for wildlife habitat diversity of species. ""Nature in the raw"" in a highly sensitive and environmentally important area of not just Fla. and the US, but the world. Providing information about the Everglades being in danger. I feel this is a very important park and must be preserved and protected as much as possible. Unique and natural settings should be kept to be observed and not developed.  Very important support Everglades restoration. Preserve the Everglades for the future. Unique natural environment. Important Mangrove site with lots of wildlife. Education. Wildlife reserve. Everglades It's unique features, wildlife, habitat, protection important for river of grass! ---- Gives us a taste of Florida history. Very. Maintain an important ecosystem, promote a love of the natural environment, teach people about native American history. Preserving the bio-sphere. Sanctuary for wildlife. Largest Everglade Park.  Happy they are preserving the area naturally.  Learned a lot on Shark Valley Tour. There is only one Everglades! The Everglades are a unique Park of Wetlands, Coastal areas, wildlife and plant environments. Very important. Bio diversity of eco system. Everglades are an important environmental area, lots of animal species. Eco systems of ----. ENP is a unique look at a sub tropical wilderness that supports a large variety of life not found anywhere else in the U.S. Beauty. Significant information learning of the ----, Mangroves, wildlife. There is only one Everglade-this Park protects it. Unique.  Ecosystems, and multiple brome's. Very good-but our ---- parks in ---- is ---- our money is higher offices. Protected swamp land. Research for other habitats. A remarkably succinct ---- ---- habitat. The nature and wildlife. International significance!! Unique environment. Internationally important habitat. Natural Resources of U.S.A. Protecting the wetlands. Information about Everglades and imp. of working together to preserve it's beauty and nature. All wonderful. Can only be reached by boat. Keeping the wildlife clean and safe. Learning history and particular animal-biological diversity that makes it so interesting. Protection of historic landscape and wildlife. Priceless. Unique environment of ecological development, rich habitat for flora and fauna, important understanding of the use of Everglades resources, esp. H2O, need for continued conservation. It is an unique ecosystem vital to South Florida that needed to be protected because of its diversity of life. Different eco systems. 0 Conservation, clean fresh water, responsible growth and construction. Belongs to the past and nature. One of a kind, conservation, natural. The unique ecosystem which offers home to so many animals and the preservation of such a special place. Incomparable-unique example of a vanishing ecosystem.  Preservation of it will show the nations ---- concern for the forever. Helping to save natural wetlands, health of natural water flow."
136,Grand Portage NM,GRPO,"Very important. Native Heritage. ---- History of fur trade. It teaches us about a significant commercial period in the 18th and early 19th century.  A period that opened up vast regions of the continent. Part of our early heritage-important for people to know about it. Very significant!  Our country depended on this trading post. Historic significance of the ---- ---- native peoples. High-best presentation of the fur trade industry, I have seen east or west.  Live ---- exhibits ---- excellent. Identifies and maintains historical importance of the northern trading as well as ---- that European traders had with local Native Americans. Showing that not all history happened on the East Coast during a very early period in U.S. history. Fabulous! It is the story of disparate cultures learning to live in respect and harmony. The teaching. Perseverance and resourcefulness; guts. To remind people of the history that took place. To preserve the Obijewa story merged with the origin/purpose of Grand Portage in the trading business. History of Northern MN and how the native tribes played such a big role.  This is so true all over the states. Significant history. Important instance of cultural contact, exchange and commerce among many peoples. To continue the history and culture of the area. To provide a history for me younger generations to appreciate and the informed about our countries and states origins. Important history-don't ever lose IT. ---- ---- of native Americans-a need for us immigrants (me since 1990). American trade history-need money to build a country!  Very important. Teaches us history of Indian ways. Is part of history of MN, conflict of Europeans and Natives. Mark early history of Ojibwa Tribe and Fur Trade. History, back ground, American Indian and Grand Portage and ---- culture and ---- not Europeans. The trade relationship helped both parties and helped show value to Minnesota. It connects us to ---- history and this area. Preserving history and information on the fur trading business and use of great lakes in late 1700's-1800's. Usually history is always significant. History of early N. Americans and Europeans. To show the relationship of the fur company to voyageur to native people, thank you. It is a great way to demonstrate not only the history of fur trade but also the way that Native Americans and the others worked together in peace. It is very significant part of US history, the park allows visitors recognize this importance and understand a deeper meaning of the area. Preserving heritage, history sharing, celebrating the original people. To preserve valuable information, artifacts and culture of Native people and for future generations. Our heritage and grateful to the Ojibwe. The history of the voyageurs and the ---- and their relationship fascinating and enlightening. To continue seeing history as it was made.  The past should be remembered. Shows off the fur trade. The value of those important to this area in early history. It is important to know the culture. The history of native people and their contact with non white people. It is very significant in its showing of the history of native cultures and the relationship of Europeans to them.  Also a beautiful setting. It illustrates critical ties between cultures, between our society and the natural environment both historically and in the present day. Displays history of the Northwest fur trade. To bring to life the historic site depot trade as it was in the late 1770's-Indian and French voyageurs.  I had not been to the Great Lakes voyageurs area before so this history was new to me. There is a rich history here, the story needs to be told and celebrated. Great film, informative, excellent to preserve and tell the story of Ojibwa people. Understanding of historical importance of this area. I did not know what Grand Portage was about.  Now I understand the 10 mile connection to the world.  Scores would be perfect if decent parking, almost missed. Ability to learn actual history, preservation of Native American culture and crafts. History of the original people. It's a part of American history and has a great story behind it. Of great historical significance. Preserves the history of the area. The connection to Native Americans and history. The fur trade effects on North America and Europe. Cultural ---- and learning. It's history. Natural beauty. It shows our connection to the land and the value of preserving for future generations. It's fur trading history, relations between English/French/Indians-all so important. To preserve history of Native Americans and nature. Fur Trade history.  I am a Trapper and Trap Collector! Deepening my knowledge of the Native American culture. I've lived in Northern MN my whole life and learned interesting facts today! Of great importance and little known. Puts Fur Traders and Native cultures ""on the map""-finally. Our history of our Native people in Minnesota. Recording Ojibwa history of the Fur Trade and importance of the trade in this area. This park is important to the history of the native peoples and the Great Lakes region. Cultural background and (over) use of resources.  How the cultures blended. Preserve history! Shares the Ojibwa heritage. The history of Fur Trading in North America. Very important to understand the original starting of Fur Trade, culture, and how ---- and disease shaped things. History. The history with the fur trade. Historic-great reminder of the history of this area. History of all peoples. An AWESOME HISTORICAL place!  With hands on learning, interactive displays reenactment people, and historians. Historical, cultural and educational. It marks a time in history and showcases a way of life and business. Early Native, French, English and American political/economic interaction. History and cultural formation of the Superior tribe of Ojibwe during the fur trade. The history of fur trading. Very great to see it being in service. The history of the fur trade; and more importantly the collaboration today between the U.S. government and the Ojibwe. We loved hearing about the confluence of early American history-trading between Native Americans and fur traders. To show the importance of the fur trade. To bring awareness and preserve the history of this great area. To teach about the Ojibwe people and what the Grand Portage was all about. Protecting history and telling the story of early Minnesotan's. It explained about the early history of the countries expansion and the European contact with native Americans. History. The fur trade and preservation of native Ojibwe culture. The Park educates and preserves the history and culture of the area and the Ojibwa people. American history. It established the Trade Market with other countries. Love the National Parks. The Fur Trade was instrumental in establishing the U.S. and Canada as nations.  It's strange we don't learn more about. The importance of Fur Trade in America History. In order to pass on the story from generation to generation, ""You have to know where we've been to know where you're going"". Great display of early Commerce in the North land.  Important for every one to learn our origins. Very important to understand Trade and importance of Trapping and Trade. Fur Trading ----.  History of French and Native American Trade Routes in America. Historical information about this area before, during and after United States of America was formed. The historical value as it pertains to the native Americans. I found it very interesting and educational. It shows a positive view of the fur trade but does not show the negative actions of ---- people and Europeans. Remembering a major economic drive of this park of the continent and how it affected the people. To preserve the Ojibwe heritage and land. Native American culture/fur trade history. Gives people a chance to learn more about the history of the area. History of what shaped this area. History, understanding the political influence, fashion influence, change of boundaries and how this affected the native people. Important historical site critical to history of Ojibwe culture and it's relationship to trade and global trade and explorers of Canada. It was a beautiful area, very well kept and friendly helpful people. The knowledge that the fur trade was so important to the nations growth. Unearthing and celebrating part of our history and heritage.  that has been overlooked for 200 years! Definitely the various cultures and the rich history from pre history to today! Historical preservation and the presentations, movie too. History. History. A significant chapter in cultural exchange (Native American, French, British) and geographic exploration of North America.  The effects of geology and ecology on human history. History of Voyageurs and the Ojibwa Indian culture very important. This park tells the story of an integral part of North American history.  This saved some of the early global trade networks. To preserve ----, about the trading in 1780-1820's.  Also good over view of native American culture."
137,Fredericksburg & Spotsylvania NMP,FRSP,"At Innis house, seeing how wars effect the people who live near combat areas. It shows pride in our past because those who do not learn from this are bound to repeat. Trim grass around Kirkland monument. Building a nation! Educate and inspires young and old to learn, understand and SHARE with others the ---- event in the nation's history, 1st half of 19 cent. Historical value. Preserving the civil war history. Absolutely. If the battle hadn't gone as it did, history would be very different! U.S. history. A very big significance. Civil war. It is incredibly historic. Civil War and it's impact. Teaching history of Civil War. It's a major Battlefield in one of the main turning points of the Nation. Militarily speaking, its the scene of the first Riverine Operation. Loved the Junior Ranger Program for the kids!  Love that this is in my area and we can enjoy it! Remembering the sacrifices of the Civil War. History awareness. Remembering. To show us what the Civil War did to our Nation. The place, more than most I've visited, drives home the reality of the Civil War and gives unique perspective on the impact of the battles on the lives of average citizens. History is better taught with hands-on experiences. Our history. Illuminating the history of the Civil War.  It does an excellent job! Keeping the History of the Civil War in Fredericksburg is key to remembering this critical chapter of U.S. history. Our National History- key spot. Preserve Hallowed Ground. The closeness to the Capital and how our Nation was changing. Preservation, conservation, interpretative commemoration. The cost of the struggle to keep the Union together. To learn about our history.  So it won't be ----. Virginia is where America was born and reborn. Shows the conviction and sacrifices of our ancestors. Civil War battlefield. Historical. Historical Civil War. History and the wall. The experience is great. History. Historic battlefield. Telling our stories as a native and restoration. History, patriotism, education. Major battle of the Civil War. Great historic value of our nation. Excellent. Civil War. To remember the sacrifice of thousands.  To keep a piece of history intact. To remember sacrifices made and to learn history so mistakes are not repeated. Huge impact on outcome of war. I believe it is significant to our history and our nation. In memory of all soldiers who fell. Preservation of historic battlefields. See the Civil War value to our country. U.S. history at its core. Very significant. Honor the fallen of the battle. It is a place where our country went through a big change. It is awesome! It plays an important part in the education of our nation's Civil War. Preserve American history. The historical aspect is very interesting.  My daughter liked seeing the bullet holes and houses. Understanding our shared past. Tell the history of Fredericksburg and its role in the Civil War. History. Keep history and never forget. Memorial for soldiers who fought here and learning. It really puts into perspective the state of the nation at that time and its relevance and significance now today. It puts actual special awareness and history into context that everybody can appreciate and understand. We are ---- and loved learning about the Civil War-Hayley was a tremendous guide.  It made our visit to this part of the U.S.! Memorializing an extremely important event in the nation. Civil War-great. It's our heritage and all parks need to fully funded-come on congress. Civil war must always be taught and preserved. History of what happened on this land. The fight for states rights. The sense of duty, honor and the bravery of the man who fought here. It's a turning point in our history. Civil War info. Honoring those who gave their lives fighting for causes about which they felt deeply and passionately. Keeping history alive and relevant. Learning what happened during the battle. Outstanding. The whole park. Understanding the history of area gives me an ---- of the area long after I leave. To understand the weight of the war and the bravery it took to fight. Frederickson Battlefield, remembering the past and those who died. Historic preservation. The incredible Battle that happened. The history. VERY HIGH. Important Battle in the Civil War. To describe early Civil War Battles.  Change mind set of Civil War from ---- to scorched earth (urban destroy Fred.). Civil War History. History repeats itself and our children and grandchildren need to know about our past. VERY MUCH YES! The American Civil War was a critical event in shaping the future of our country. All Civil War battle fields are significant to American history as they tell us where we are ---- where we ----. We must never forget the lives lost in the Civil War. The poor military tactics of the time. To preserve and educate those about the Civil War and how it shaped a nation. Historical, sobering lesson. Regiment from one hometown fought here and gave a better ---- for their ----. This park is a testament to the most trying time in our past. Great! Educate people on important civil war battle. Keeps our national history alive. Preserve history of U.S. This park preserves the history of our nation for future generations. Educational value. Amazing place to see history and learn about our country. To visit a piece of war history. Historical significance. Amazing set of battle fields and items associated with the war. Preserve history so the next generations never forget those who sacrificed so much. Civil War is a foundational aspect of this country and Fred/Spot is a part of that. We must not forget our history! I have been to battleground towns around the world  Your Justin Voit ---- did a fantastic job of explaining the battle.  You can be proud of him! To show that war is HELL-and stupid. Appreciate Civil War heritage. Commemorating and remembering significance of our Civil War. Historical-Civil War. It memorializes an important battle in the Civil War, and the land is preserved for future generations. Some.  Civil War history. Hugely. Very great.  I enjoyed it all. To learn about America's past. The Union's greatest defeat. Wow.  Amazing link in numerous Civil War campaigns. History. Hallowed ground, Americans lost in battle. The Civil War is formative and reflective of our nation's past and present. Preservation of history. An urban battleground is always a fascinating experience.  Thanks. Battle of Fredericksburg. Educational to the history of the U.S.. Any battle that molded our country is significant.  We love this place.  Very rich in history that should be remembered. Important historical information. Walk through the history of our nation. Valuable to learn about an important battle of Civil War. Civil War battlefield. Very equally and honestly looked at both sides and overall significance. Wonderful way to relive a horrid part of our nation's history and hopefully learn from our mistakes. It is necessary for citizens to know about their country's history. Important battle in the 1862 campaign. Civil War battle.  History.  Fredericksburg. Extremely high to show our children and beyond how a country came to being. Extremely significant. Historical-preservation of Civil War site, educational, link to my Civil War ancestor-his records and his experience. History is as important as our future. History-U.S., great knowledge from the staff. Important battle of Civil War. Remember out vets. To bring alive the history of the things that happened here. To tell the story for those ages hence and inspire the present. Very significant. Excellent guide-passionate and very knowledgeable of subject matter. emancipation-Civil War. Excellent battlefield. History. It's a critical piece of Civil War history, essential to understanding that ere and the human cost of war. Key battle of the Civil War. Learn about American history and the war. The Battle of Fredericksburg is very crucial to the Civil War. First Battle of Civil War-Fredericksburg. History and the preservation of it. Very important Civil War history. Cultural and historical. Great American history. Helps people understand history in a way a book never could. Represents the struggles the nation went through then and how hard each side fought.  How much they valued their position and beliefs. Civil war history. Grew up in this area coming to this battlefield, ---- children, now bringing my child to learn her history. Preservation of history. Yes-it was great! The history of our nation and what makes us great. Who we are today and to come. Civil war history is great! Battles of 1862-64 and the communities (soldiers, civilians) the ---- and were affected. Commemorates a tragic time in our history. It promotes the nations history. A great part of our history. It shows the horrible costs of war-and not just in lives lost, but in cities mined and landscapes ravaged by war. History preservation four battlefields, honor to those who died; lessons we all should learn.  Make a one-page summary easy to photocopy and sell $1.00. Helps people better understand.  The Civil war and it's impact on civilians. The history, I've learned so much! Brings alive the battle.  Horror of war. Jeff Martin and Jon D. were outstanding, knowledgeable, helpful, great service!! Maintaining and preserving our Nation's History. The richness of history. The importance of learning from history-all the lessons. Major events in Civil War which changed the course of this great country. All Americans should be taught the history of this nation and the sacrifices these men made, both North and South. So very important to preserve history!!! To the memory of the men, of ---- who made the supreme sacrifice on the battlefield. The site of a major battle, which offers a valuable reminder that military commanders are not omniscient or cautious at times. Civil war battles. The historical value. It helps put a ""face"" on the Civil War, not just the fighting, but the cost to everyone including civilians."
138,"Martin Luther King, Jr. NHS",MALU,"Came along way to view the birth home very disappointed. To keep the legacy and memory of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. alive for all eternity. In this day and age the significance cannot be over stated. To teach us all how seg. came about. Black history knowledge. Remembering the history and impact of MLK Jr. Civil rights movement and how it changed the country. 0 The history. That I know who Martin Luther King is and was a man of God that wanted to make a change for the better in all peoples lives bring them together. Very significant, it is so important to keep the equality movement alive.  Our world is still experiencing the same problem in other ways! A place to commute. Keeping Dr. King's dream alive is an honorable task and challenge we face in today's society.  Keeping his dream alive by informing the youth. Learning about history. Very nice keep it up. To learn about our history. National historic site. To keep Martin Luther King Jr.'s legacy alive and teach the younger generations. Education. Historical events. Yes. Enlightment and knowledge. Respecting those who fought for equality for all regardless of race. Education/awareness. It shows the struggles of African American rights and the fight for equal opportunities because everyone deserves an equal chance. It highlights the mistakes made in history so hopefully we won't make them again in the future and the amazing people who helped make change for the better. To honor and preserve an important aspect of the civil rights movement. Learning about the importance of the civil rights movement and it's impact on our nation. Education about the history of inequality in America. Honoring Dr. King and his legacy and the on going struggle that we face. To educate our youth. To inform people of how far we've come and how far we still need to go. To learn about the early influences on the life and work of Martin Luther King Jr. Amazing experience. Education/cultural awareness. Everything. I enjoyed looking around learning about MLK also we are here as a family. Progression of racial equality in America by one of the popular black leaders. The national significance is that Martin Luther King did a lot for us. To learn about my history. To preserve and protect historical artifacts and promote knowledge of the state's history! It's important to teach new generation about history. Seminal figure, improvement (and unfinished) revolution to ensure racial and class equality in the US. The information and the speaker was awesome. Very important life history. To show us where in world use to be and how far we've come to how far we need to go. This park tells an important story about the history of oppression and the struggle for civil rights in the US. Nice stop along the way.  Easy to over look, good interactions video for kids. ML is a really important person of US history and his international activities should be presented more. It is so important to remind history to young generations. A place to come and contemplate race relations in the US. Instilling the history of our nation and evolution of racial divide and unity, growth and perservance. The history of MLK, specific time period, history over time. To show all of the history and events that took place here and share the emotions and passion of this site. Much of the discrimination is still going on today, so it is vital that this information is available and promoted. To teach and educated all. ---- of fire ----. Very educational. Memory of MLK and relevance to current events today. It is integral to history. The history shared and available for those of a younger generation or outside of the African American community. King's house. Historic. History of our founders. I think that the park and overall it is very nice and clean. It teaches the history of Dr. King and his journey. Memories and growth and strength for all race. Preserving history. To celebrate and remember Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. To decrease racial tension and to help increase equality among all cultures. To learn, understand and educate all persons on the historical legacy of MLK and Jimmy Carter. To show how much good and change MLK gave the world. To show the impact of Dr. King's life on the world. Yes. Yes. Civil Rights and Peace.  Martin Luther King, Jr. Martin Luther King Jr. helped to abolish segregation.  This Park is helpful in teaching that history. Educational. History and respect of MLK. Major part of US history. Very significant. History of civil rights and life of Martin Luther King Jr. Rocky mountain national park, natural beauty.  ML King park-equality for all. We are all equal in every way. Dr. Kings legacy, history of the people. Teaching young people about past sacrifices for today's civil rights. The history of all Americans.  Awesome job. Martin Luther King. Visiting from out of town. Teach generations of the importance of the civil rights movement and how indeed one man who cared about justice changed the world. Showing more detail about MLK's life and the significance of equal rights. This parks significance is that it urges people to learn, understand and remember the importance of what occurred when MLK led his protests. A reminder that the civil rights movement is an effort that requires all persons to be involved to push our efforts forward. Historic value of the struggles and life time sacrifices of many to achieve peace and freedom. It is a great opportunity for a man of my age to help my two girls learn about a great leader of peace! Rights of all people. The overcoming of segregation. The people are great. To celebrate those individuals like ML who have contributed greatly for the equality and freedom African Americans enjoy. To continue the education of past advancements to our nation and pass it on to the present and future. To educate, to empower, to increase knowledge. To inform and keep Dr. King's dream alive! To maintain memory of Dr. King in hopes we learn from the past. To chronical and memorialize the civil rights contribution of MLK. It's a part of American and world history that everyone should learn. To educate others of the past influence of the country.  How others were treated. Beyond description.  MLK historic site is an important site to visit. The life and times of a great leader, MLK, Jr.. Very important not just to the USA but the world (UK citizen). To help keep the dream alive and the memory of a ""great"" Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr..  Thank you! It is a reminder of hope and a fight for freedom that is a lifelong battle.  I wish that will end with building a community culture of informed voters! The historical legacy of the inspiration, hope and strength.  Used to stay vibrant to live on. Hometown and home neighborhood of one of the greatest humanitarian leaders in the world-Martin Luther King, Jr.. Everything is great and fine at the M. L. King Center. MLK gave voice to a crucial revolution. Monument of a very important time that refocuses us on our journey to the greatest American we can have. To honor Dr. King and his sacrifice. Building a community culture of informed voters, ccivoters.org.  Clark Nelson. Commemorate the work of those who recognize and fight against injustice. Good job.  However, the wording on the outside plaque was hard to read. Mr. King's continued significance; i. e., family man! We benefit from knowing things that are true.  We will grow as a nation as we incorporate cultural wide history. Education of Martin Luther King.  Great! Huge significance; struggle for equality.  Inspiration for public service and ----. The King Center is the historical treasure and legacy of the Civil Rights era.  The videos, word descriptions and statues and prompts bring the movement to life. Dr. King's life and work altered the course of U.S. history. Had a great experience. I enjoyed everything about the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King exhibit.  I get VERY emotional.  Awesome service. To show the accomplishments, achievements, and sacrifices of others. These events have helped shape our nation and the work needs to go on. Have enjoyed all the history of this park and the blacks have overcome so much adversity. it is very good center and I learned about this and I like it. Knowledge and history. Service to the community.  Providing needed information to everyone! This park is more relevant now than ever before-we need to continue to educate Americans of the continued injustices of the U.S.! To inform the nation of love, unity, equality, reconciliation and the duty of each of its citizens to be committed to those virtues. To learn about the history of African-Americans. To remind me of how far we've come.  And how we have to go. To show the significance of we black people grown as grown to our freedom. Yes, very. MLK-greatest American. A reminder of the service MLK, Jr. made and that peaceful protest is always better than violence. Good job, city of Georgia. The history of the nation in general and how far we have as a people. Yes. Martin Luther King Jr and the amazing things he did for this country and the important parts of his history is here to share, witness. M.L.K. Jr. Very significant, Atlanta won't be the same without it. Its an important part of American history. To remember the unbelievable accomplishments of MLK Jr. and promote peace. Importance of Martin Luther King and equal rights in the U.S. All of it was great. Something I have never seen and it was a beautiful site to see for the first time. Historical lessons. The importance of the fight of MLK Jr. for the end of segregation. It helps people remember, learn, and inspire people in things related to MLK.  It inspires people that they can work for change. The significance of this park is amazing and very instrumental to or nature.  Thanks for providing this! To learn more about my history as a young black male.  I also use these experiences for everyday  life. Park rangers were very knowledgeable and friendly. It works well to display the ---- nature of segregation and Civil Rights movement. The lady was amazing and gave us a nice amount if history. MLK's role in the Civil Rights Movement. Shows some history I didn't ever know a bout. Historical significance of the role of MLK in  changing Civil Rights for Americans. Love the history. Dr. King. The learn about Martin Luther King, JR. Civil Righs. It is important for our family to come here and learn about our history. Preservation of Dr. King's legacy. To further knowledge of the Civil Rights Movement and the history behind it. The 16 blackmen into the fire department. The message ---- could be much better presented!  Displays, films, facility, available resources appear to be old!  The MLK Jr. site is obviously very low on the NPS budget ladder!  Shame, shame Steve Suder ----. An integral part of our nations history! To mark MLK's legacy and celebrate. A place to learn about important history and people in history. The history. This is the historical home of MLK.  It's important to visit! Civil right movement started here! It was totally amazed by the center, good work. Enlighten Americans on legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Honoring Martin Luther King Jr. Looking at the MLK tributes. History, acknowledgement of African American history. Birth home/visitor center. This park has global significance in reminding us of the evil of prejudice and discrimination. The culture. 0 MLK home and life the neighborhood.  Excellent.  King Ctr not NPS those stores a bit shakey but understand why exist.  Love church rehab what a prize treasure along with home and firehouse of course flames. To educate everyone. Very nice personnel! Very motivational. This park is very important to the history of this country. A presence of the struggles, triumphs of the past and a vision, ages for the future. Honors a significant cultural figure to this nation's history. History and knowledge of life from the past. It's important for us to know about MLK Jr. and his life. Part of history. To remember how far we've come, and how far we have yet to come regarding civil rights in our own country. It's a part of our nation's history that gets ignored.  We need more knowledge, great centers. To see where MLK was born and grew up. Commemoration of the life of a national hero, martyr, and inspiration to us all. A nation where all man are equal. To help people learn more about our history. Very peaceful, and it reminds us all of a ---- and present need for peace, love, and equality. I am very impressed by all the historical items here and in the area, and I think the city has done great job! Needs a place from visitors to have lunch and eat. Because black people need to be better represented and we can't forget white people treated black people like trash.  (Lily, age 9). Was wonderful. What it represents.  Very special, very peaceful. A very needed learning experience. An important park of history. Dr. King, the history of change! Excellent thank you. Great great history. It shows us what a man sacrificed for equality.  His family, his life, his freedom. It tells us about our history, and the struggle we went through to get here. It's impact an ---- the ---- of this prominent ---- ----.  It's all black crew/staff. Mine was a gift to society and he should be respected for all that he has done.  The park is important because all should know about all of his hard work and our history. Reflects Dr. King's great influence. Showcase very ---- on and the most important ---- was in America ----. The history of the civil rights movement. The part represents me as an African American and my culture. To learn about what ones was. Remembering the importance of Dr. King and how he began civil rights."
139,Kenai Fjords NP,KEFJ,"For visitors to see the glacier and understand it's changes and how both nature and humans affect it. Outstanding mountains, glaciers, coast line. Teaching/learning/preserving. The geological understanding of what is happening to our environment. Preservation of maritime ecosystem. I demonstrates some very unusual aspects of our national geography and wildlife.  All very well done. Preserving ---- ----- it to visitors. Aialik Glacier. Ecosystem, glaciers, climate change. Guaranteed access to wilderness. National Parks are great to help  my kids understand how nature is valuable and should be preserved, and also how culture develop because of local nature. Otters/Russia/Purchase by USA. Preservation of many animals, as well as glaciers and habitats.  Continuation of Native heritage.  Love of Nature! Preserve nature as it was in the past.  Love the fact it is in by bus.  Wish Yosemite was this way and Muir Woods. The glaciers are melting fast. Protection of wildlife. It's a national treasure that ---- ---- and taught to future generations the beauty must be shared. Unique wild life and geological formations. Help understand an illustrate impact of climate change on the environment. Ice, forest. Preservation of the wild from a current and historical perspective. Puffins. Understanding natural value and rich human history as well. Preserving the natural unspoiled beauty and the wildlife. I like the way they try to keep it all natural. Educate and enrich others about the gem called Alaska. Pres. Harding, 49th State, geology, wildlife. Natural beauty, wildlife, an aspect of the U.S. not seen in the lower 48. Unique geological sights, fauna. Important to preserve it for postering and the nation. Educate about glaciers. Can do attitude. ---- should know/learn about how ---- land was formed and we ---- preserve the natural ----. Preservation of wildlife and nature for future generation. Show the natural ---- beauty of ----. Excellent education program for children and adults. Very worth while activity for entire family. Education-understanding. Excellent opportunity to observe unique qualities of this very different state. Exit glacier. ID items on video at visitor center. ---- artifacts etc. Glaciers and sea life. Natural ---- wildlife. The glaciers are a rapidly disappearing national treasure, and the park helps people enjoy them while we still can. To demonstrate the effects of climate change. Protect our resources. Beauty, awareness of effects of climate change. Understanding souther Alaska and the geological and human impacts on the landscape and glaciers. Natural environment. Opportunity to see a glacier ""up close and personal"" for non-Alaskans. Glaciers!  Forests! Majesty. Our kids received multiple Junior Ranger merits.  Ranger was confusing, threw order of merits rules, my children were disappointed in the activity-one word-relax.  No by-the-book Beatties! Shows glacier disappearing very clearly. It is pretty good. It's beautiful! High. To show more of Alaska and to teach the public about the glaciers and the fragile ecosystem in this part of the country's experience outside. It is an important point for science stories related to climate change. The fact that the U.S. owns the land but for Mr. Seward. Glacier. The glacier. Wild, untouched beauty. Beautiful views that should be preserved as long as possible. A period of geology that is disappearing. Preservation, education, enjoyment. High. Refuge, keep things both as they were and in perspective. Display of natural environment, especially glaciers. Nature, you can see the change of climate. Fjords, wildlife. Glaciers and how we are affecting them by global warming. Have existed starting in 1978 and reorganized glacier ----.  Good education. Much. The ice field.  It was incredible to view the expanse of the ice field. Glacier. Teaching about glaciers, how they form, need plants, etc.. Preservation of nature.  Education. To show value of preserving our resources and land. Education, and preservation. The environmental impact. The wonderful creations the world is made of. These glaciers are a significant part of our country and earth's history. Our national parks help remind us of the beauty of the world...so important in this day!  We love taking our children to national parks.  Thank you! Great. Protecting nature. Spotlighting the glacier. It's pretty neat. Glaciers and they are getting smaller. Offers opportunity to witness a part of nature unlike anything in my state of GA. High in terms of climate. Educate. To see the glacier while it's still here. Very good. Knowledge of glaciers and ice fields. Our important glaciers and ice fields. ---- 0 Glaciers reading-global warming. Nature. Keeping ---- national. The glaciers that you could walk right up to was amazing. ---- So significant!  The signage helps a person really understand how glaciers are sadly receding so quickly. Glacier environmental awareness. Glacier. Glaciers and marine ----. The dynamic nature of our environment. Ext Glacier and how it has been studied and documented.  View of all the mountains there. Concerned glacier are quickly retreating.  Should provide more info on global warming. To bring nature to all. To see how global warming is influencing. Historic travel history. Ecosystem, ---- allows people to get close to ----. Glaciers are significant because they are unique to this area of the U.S. and show climate change. Ice. Glacier, ice field, moose, bears. Glacier knowledge and global warming understanding. It's such a special place, needs to be protected. Opportunity to learn about glaciers first-hand.  Wildlife habitat preservation. Great opportunity to see glacier. The history of the glacier. See glacier before it disappears. Great opp to see glacier close up. What is sad is about 15 years ago, we could touch it but now, we can't reach it any more. Glacier movement and geological learning. The glacier and the conservations. Historical perspective-weather. To show climate change-happening! Seeing global warming in action. Holds one of few easily accessed glaciers. So beautiful! Taking my children to see exit glacier and showing them the ---- over the past 100 was a great learning experience. Historical. I have no idea but it was awesome. It's the glacier park that has the most receding ice, and the most flies! Nature reservation. Nature. To preserve for all to enjoy as opposed to private ownership accompanied by exclusion to this beauty. Continuing to educate people on the effects people have on nature and it's beauty. The awareness of Glaciers and their significance. Exhibit of an actual Icefield and Glacier that shows some advancement but way more recession. Reminds us to take care of nature.  The receding ---- Glacier should encourage us to protect our resources. Very important. Tremendous, truly wild varied habitats, geological learning. Able to see glaciers and an ice field. Important. National treasure, builds patriotism. The glacier is an interesting landmark and the park shows it's history. Access ----/easy on seniors should historical history with dates. Impeccable! It should be protected. Harding icefield and exit glacier. Best example I've seen of global warming on human time scales. Access to the glacier, ice field.  Awesome view. Conserving glacier and forest. It is needed to bring to the attention of all the serious warming effects of fossil fuels.  This is a landmark for Alaska. It is preserving natural wonders (glaciers), and teaching stewardship to kids through the junior ranger program. Preserving and educating about nature. Studying glaciers. The glaciers and wild life. It teaches and visual defines the nature of Global warming and what it is doing to Glaciers. This park protects some amazing landmarks/nature that might otherwise be destroyed and therefore not enjoyed.  This goes with the special wildlife there, too. Preserving the wildlife in the park for the animals and for future generations to see! Vanishing glaciers, how important they are overall to the health of the planet. To show the beauty of our country-all the animals and things we should be preserving. Easy access to a glacier. I consider important to have opportunity to visit and watch this kind of landscapes. The nature around and glacier are so unique to this location.  Learning how the glacier has changed over the years was amazing. To preserve the natural beauty and educate its visitors. It was amazing to be so close to a glacier and ice field.  I haven't found that anywhere else. Awareness of the status of the glaciers and climate change. Preservation of nature. Preservation of beauty and opportunity to explore. Unique natural resource (Harding ice field and glaciers), remarkable recreational and educational resources.  I have visited many national parks, but none quite like Kenai Fjords. Introduce glacier field terrain, ice field terrain and surrounding area.  Did not take a tour or guide. To showcase climate change. Protect a unique landscape. Wonderful experience. Preserving the natural beauty of what God has given to us in this great nation. We are losing some of our valuable natural beauty."
140,Big South Fork NRRA,BISO,"We tried to figure it out while there and couldn't.  I guess to preserve water shed and have outdoor rec. space. The unique rock formations, streams, and overlooks, not to be found elsewhere. Preserving landscape and history. To preserve the beauty of the natural resources in this area. Learning/seeing how parks natural features were formed.  Life in a coal mining town! Protection of wilderness. It's very good. The history was interesting, about Mr. ---- coming to KY, etc. Very good. Very good. Represents the struggle and hard time of ""pioneer"" settlers to provide for families and how intelligent Stearns Coal and Lumber was. Historical value is great to see. Excellent. Reclamation-environmental's great. Very good-a glimpse into a last life style.  A part of our history that a few people lived. Very nice facility.  Rangers were super. Preserving history. High. Offers insight to ---- lifestyle. Mining industry. Remembering our heritage. Great. Heritage of Kentucky and Tennessee. To show people lived during the coal boom."
141,Stones River NB,STRI,"Civil war history. To remember what ---- ---- and to share it. Preserve and educate a significant event in American history for the general public. As part of the Civil War this Park has an important job to teach us about our history to learn from it and appreciate what we have today. Though not much publicity, the area played a large part in the war. Civil War Battlefield-site of firs Civil War Memorial/Monument. Rich in history about the Civil War.  I am very interested in it.  Very good. To educate the public about the Civil War. One of the largest losses of life, and one of the most strategically significant Battles in the Civil War. National battlefield-large significance in civil war. Learning about one of the most important battles in the Civil War and having it set aside for protection. One of th key deciding battles of the Civil War and a place of beauty. Paying respects to the past. Location of a significant Civil War battle. Preserves and educates visitors on Civil War battle here. Civil War battlefield from historical perspective.  Value to me: nice place to walk and experience nature. It gives us freedom!  Very beautiful Park. Preserves important history. This was a major civil war battle and is important to remember. The national significance of this ----, ""Remember"" the battle that was fought here and those who have fallen.  Let us ""remember"" what this great nation has fought for. Clean facilities, friendly staff, educational documents, presentations etc. Represents a major battlefield of civil war and reminds us of the sacrifice. Documentary civil (War of Aggression) ----. Very significant for all it's Civil War history. Yes, this history of the Civil War is very important. It is needed to preserve a historic battlefield. Civil war, historical value. It is significant for the history of our nation.  Speaking of this, historically speaking there was a lack of placards and ---- showing.  The confederate positions and historical actions. Civil war battle history. A lot happened at the battle of Stones Rivera that helped to shape our great Nation. Appreciation for what Civil War soldiers had to live through. Clearly very significant I had no idea until I came here. Very significant indeed. Preservation of Civil War and Era history. Site of a civil war battle(s) in which many people lost their lives; trail of tears passes thru the area. More info on Civil War was interesting. Preservation and education of a significant Civil War battlefield. Historic value. Also show state beauty. Helped us understand the absurdity of the American Civil War and the great sacrifices people made over nothing of value. Yes, the battle helped push the confederates back, a significant battle indeed. To educate the public about the horrors of the Civil War, more specifically the battle at Stones River. It's a huge part of Civil War history. Key Civil War battle enabling North to win civil war.  disappointing in the ONLY slavery was focused as Civil War issue/---- was ---- I did not see any thing about the north ---- on state's rights-the war's main reason and a huge issue today!!! Great memorial to all men and women who sacrificed so much to make our country great. Stones River was a major turn in the Civil War for the North! It is important that we preserve the ground that our forebears fought on to keep the U.S. together. Our history is taught in a ""sanitized"" manner.  We need to know the true story, the sacrifice, the intensity, the true picture to appreciate our country. This park is a ---- to all those who made the ultimate sacrifice during one of the most troubling times in our nation's history.  That we 0000 visit this park ---- ---- ----.  Black and white ---- ---- ----. Provided the unions a superior staging area to supply the rest of the war in the south location. Provide information to the public regarding history of this area and it's battles. So we never forget the mistakes we made. Very important for the Park is the site of an important turning point in the civil War for the Union. Civil War history. Huge part in Civil War history. It is a valuable part of our Country's history.  This Park helps us to understand and appreciate the hardships endured by our ancestors. Explanation and clarification of CW Military History. Historical preservation of a significant Civil War battlefield site. Battle of Stone River. Our national battlefields should be preserved in honor of all our ancestors who fought and died.  My great, great, great grandfather fought here. To commemorate the battle ---- ---- lives. Historical value. To honor the past, Americans. Contribution of all those that fought. Historical, honor for the fallen heroes that fought for the slaves freedoms. Well preserved Civil War site. Significant Civil War battlefield. While the battle is not widely known, the heroism is so worthy of note. Civil war history-specific to the Murfreesboro/Nashville region. To understand one of the battles in the civil war. Civil war history-learned a lot that I did not previously know. For Americans to learn where they come from to prevent returning. To preserve the memory of those who fought here. My great uncle is buried in the great Levi Brisbin cemetery he fought in the battle 21st Ohio. Very signified. The park honors Civil War heroes. It is a good rest stop. Historically valuable-the outcome of the Civil War might have been different without the Stone River battle. Civil war history. Keeping the historic site safe and enjoyable for the future. To preserve the place where Americans on both sides fought and died, and to interpret the events out the battle to visitors. I was able to visit the very spot where my  G.G. Grandfather fought-so can others. It emphasizes the sacrifice of so many and the patriotism on both sides. A great number of lives were lost here.  This is a great way to pay tribute to them. To keep a huge important part of our nation's history alive for future generations to help make the people of the 1860's more alive and real and not just figures in history books. A major lesson known ---- ---- ---- ----.  It was interesting to learn about."
142,Mount Rushmore NMem,MORU,"Extremely important. Reminder of our history and renewed pride in our country. A celebration of American values; accomplishment and aspirations. History. We brought our grandchildren and this was a very good opportunity to discuss U.S. history with them. To honor past presidents. Pride, educational. A great achievement representing the building of a great country. Patriotism and the learning of our founding fathers, what they had envisioned. Honoring presidents who were influential on our country's history. Encompasses the awesome beauty and majestic nature of this great Nation. Four Presidents who were outstanding all for different reasons.  We must remember them and all others as they are our heritage. Representing what build America. Helped me learn more about the developing of America as a country. Reminder of the influential former presidents.  Also the impact one person can make.  (The artist). Any and everything that raises patriotism is well received and worth it! Over a million pristine natural acres of land with unique features that everyone can visit.  Example geysers, mud pools, mountains, lakes, etc.  Beautiful country! Argue with the themes of the video-the respectful leadership of the 4 Presidents depicted our role in preserving liberty. It's a lasting sculpture honoring 4 of the greatest leaders from our country's history. The founding fathers of America.  Perhaps DAILY THEY ARE LOOKING DOWN AT THE VISITORS TO SEE IF THEY (VISITORS ARE OBEYING THE CONSTITUTION AND preserving freedom. The ---- of democracy of the USA regarding to fundamental taxes and values. It's an historical representation of four of the most prominent men who helped shape our nation into the greatest country on earth. It highlights the American spirit and vision which make America great.  Where there is a will, there is a way. Remembering our Presidents. History and beauty in one. Highlighting what the four presidents did and stood for to guide the nation and her citizens. Being Canadian, we are happy to have such a great place to visit within driving distance. Presidents in Mt. Rushmore. To never forget the guiding principles of the four faces. The history it represents and the stories it holds. Patriotism and sense of pride in our country, paying omagh to our founding fathers that capture the spirit of the country. Anything is possible when you put your mind and body to preserve. To remind people of their history and how people liked to lay down guiding principles to make American great. Demands National tradition shared values. It's a great celebration of our heritage and the democratic principles upon which this country was founded. This reminds me of the great things that these presidents have done and the magnificence of our country. What the President did.  How it was built. Install national pride, learn about the culture, heritage of the peoples of the area of state, eh! This park has significance for Canadian visitors as well.  It is an opportunity for us to review the principles of U.S. history and to cherish having a neighbor who upholds the democratic ideal. Embodiment of the ideals and founding's of America.  To appreciate what we have as Americans. It honors 4 men that laid the very foundation of our nation and what liberties we enjoy.  Their leadership is a role model for all of us. Putting the faces of our nation in stone preserves our history for many years to come.  This is an extraordinary accomplishment. A national treasure that has gone to commercialization. Nice heads. A monument to the history of our country.  Also gives a history lesson on those great man and ----. National pride, bringing people together to ENJOY themselves. Remembering the great men that helped build this nation. To honor four presidents that helped shape America. Preservation of history, education. Remembrance of important figures helping establish westward expansion. Our heritage, art appreciation and beauty. We spoke with a park ranger, Adrienne Jager, very informative and personable. Awesome had a great time!!! Park ranger very informative about creation of park, the rock formations and in general very pleasant.  Answered our questions. It is a beautiful monument to some of our important leaders. Paying homage ---- great Americans. No handicapped access to sculptor's studio.  Very disappointing. History of our presidents.  How the presidents were sculpted into the rock."
143,Niobrara NSR,NIOB,"Very significant. The great outdoors. Natural beauty. Enjoy the beauty of God's creation. It gives everyone a chance to see what Nebraska is like. Love that this exists in Nebraska! ---- Scenic beauty. Great history and beautiful landmark. Its very important to keep these areas preserved for the next generation. ---- It is a very good canoeing river and a gem for ----. Very good place to come too. Smith Falls. The river and bluffs are a sight that should be preserved. Public availability. The falls. Heritage. Historical-land formations have been ""in the works"" for hundreds/thousands/millions of years! It is awesome to see such great nature. Natural beauty. The wildlife refuge preserves a bit of the sandhills country in a semi-natural state.  Protection of the ---- River is highly significant. Ogallafa aquifer, beautiful scenery. River preservation and public use. We loved everything-the history of this place is amazing and well preserved. Overall care of wild life and life long taking of your environment. Historical landmarks and natural beauty. High plains aquifer-water falls. River!  Saw a eagle at Smith Falls! Convergence of eco systems and ability to enjoy the river float. As it is known-highest waterfall in Nebraska. Beautiful! It's a beautiful area that needs to be kept to remind people of the way things used to be. Beautiful scenery!! The rivers, waterfalls and park rangers are the significance of this park. Beautiful, birds, Bald Eagles! Falls. It is a beautiful scene that I have never see any where else. Very good. I love this Park and hope it exists for as long as possible. The preservation of the Niobrara River. A great teaching environment. Very nice Park to visit. Excellent no where else in Nebraska. Beautiful River. National Parks are extremely important to the preservation of our Nation's natural resources. The protection of the ecological systems that make up the Niobrara NSR. Eco system and fossils of outstanding natural contribution.  Confluence of flora and fauna not found else where on the continent, let alone in our nation. The awesome river. Protect Niobrara River. It reminds you of native Americans canoeing down the river and standing on the bluffs-also the old bridges are cool. Preservation of a bison herd. The same as any other national park, the preservation of natural scenic and wild life areas for younger generations to enjoy. Unrelated:  I wrote to NPS American Battlefields Protection Program for info and offered to volunteer-no response! Preserving nature. Keeping the area protected for the future. It is majestic and beautiful. The Niobrara is very unique!  Some of the clearest, most beautiful water I've seen.  That doesn't happen just everywhere. Unique ecosystem. Best outdoor area in the Midwest. Nature preservation. To preserve the ---- everyone ----. Excellent. Clean ---- Unique ecology, recreational activities. Getting out a loving nature. It shows Nebraska is so much more than cornfields. it's beautiful. Thank you. One of the ---- natural ---- in Nebraska. Beautiful, scenery, natural ---- and America. ---- Honestly I just enjoy ---- nature having a place to enjoy the outdoors. Waterway (transportation ----) retain ---- Nebraska as first seen by whites. Showing how amazing Nebraska ---- the river is. The river. Yes. America **** yeah. Your teaching ---- river. It is very ----. Learned so much ---- my experience. Makes it amazing everytime we come back to see the growth and up keep. Nice having parks in all states. Water in a windy ----. Fun! Many ecosystem. Few truly unspoiled scenic views exist anymore.  Love that we can! The fact that four ecosystems come together in one place. Learned today that fossils, waterfalls and floating established this park. Protecting river flow for recreational use. Return to nature. Largest waterfall in NE is very significant. Water? Preserve nature. Diversity of eco environments, unique beauty of area. The national significance is to explain the difference in different ecosystems. Fossils and waterfall. Natural beauty. The falls is so nice and it shows the purity of nature. We thoroughly enjoyed it. To preserve and protect the natural and cultural values of the Nebraska SR. The waterfalls. Tallest waterfall in Nebraska. NSR's don't really have this criterion. Understanding of the importance of our heritage and connection to the land as it is implied to our patriotism. Scenery. Beauty of the river. Preserve. Help protect and educate people of importance of waterways. Preserves a very scenic place for future generations. To preserve the beauty for every generation. Importance of outdoors. Preserving one of the few waterfalls (larger) and scenic water way in Nebraska. Extremely. To educate the public on nature and provide a means to appreciate the outdoors for everyone. Very important. Our family has ---- and ---- for many years.  Glad the River is recognized for its value. Keeps memories from childhood fresh. Location!  Natures beauty. The beautiful waterfalls, cleanliness, hiking, trees, and nature. Preservation! Family time. Community and America. Smith Falls, special eco system. Cleanliness. Fossils and water falls. The river. Nebraska tourism. Tallest falls, beauty, peaceful, serenity, ----! Park-amazing, restrooms-poor. Beautiful-floating-outdoor appreciation. Beautiful scenery. Very scenic! Maintaining our history. Undisturbed river. Wonderful.  Was a first experience and was beautiful. River! Waterfalls-beautiful. Important to introduce public to the Niobrava and the significance of the Niobrara River Valley. Presentation. Geology, fossils, floating. Waterfall, fossils. It preserves nature. The waterfall-beautiful. Freedom!! Nebraska 100th meridian ecosystem. Tallest waterfall in NE. The falls have been our stop for 5 years wonderful place. Waterfall, river, scenic (trees, land). Waterfalls awesome. Waterway through sandhills connecting to Missouri river. Full on the ---- and picnic.  Nice full. The availability with the world."
144,Cape Hatteras NS,CAHA,"Significant piece of history. Cool old lighthouse, views, beach WWI staff interesting. Light house history. The lighthouse. Very impressive. Great history and site! We have so much to learn from our history-it's important to keep parks like these up and running. It is the oldest operational Lighthouse in America. We can thank Hamilton for the Cape's light house.  The graveyard of the Atlantic is a sacred underwater monument. Printed materials to read on history and construction would be helpful.  Also in foreign languages as we have a french visitor. Shows history of how boats found the outer banks. Historic lighthouse. Teaching about the ---- services. Preservation of nature and history. Serves as a valuable historic reminder, of what could be forgotten, to never be found ----. This is the most beautiful I have seen of all light houses. Provides several opportunities to learn about the history of the area. Must maintain heritage and history. Educational use and value. Came with 5 adults and 3 children 4"" + a turned away 1 41.75"" child.  Now only 2 adults and 2 children.  Horrible experience. Visited Ocracoke Lighthouse, first lighthouse on OBX and second oldest still in operation in U.S.. It's a lighthouse so, ships wouldn't run a ground. Awesome!  Important! It tells maritime history and presents the natural wonders.  Awesome! Public access to beauty, nature sadly lacking now with roped off access. WW2 and Naval history and maritime. History preservation. Beautiful seashore and history.  Bird life and sanctuary. Safety. Historic value, beautiful scenery. It saved many lives and continues to do so. Significant. Great piece of naval history. History. Boaters history. Environmental significance, historical role in maritime industry. Relates to ""safety"" and history of area and country. History of maritime travel and safe passage for settlers. Love the history behind it. Important for ship travel. To preserve historical history, show children what lighthouse keepers lives were like. Learning about maritime history. To inform about the importance of lighthouses to navigation. Dear Mr. Jarvis: The narrow and short-sighted agenda of the environment groups do not consider what is good for our nation, our people... or even the environment.  Please do what you can to resist their feel-good efforts.  Thank you, 602-992-9438 ----. Lighthouse preservation. The lighthouse and view. Maritime history, National history. To preserve the historic lighthouse and the history of the graveyard of the Atlantic. Unspoiled coastal areas with access for everyone to use.  Keep bathrooms open in fall. It is a part of our Nations history. Maritime history. Teach us about the past-enjoy the beauty of this World we live in. The first national seashore. Well maintained-educational-great for children-family oriented. Preserving history. Occacoke Island has such a significant place in N.C. history.  My family has learned so much from ranger programs. History of the state, preservation. It's history. ---- Landmark. VERY. Very significant. History of interaction with ocean/symbol of guidance and safety. Historical. The lighthouse is amazing. A great natural preserve for future generations. Our history. History of lighthouses and importance to maritime activities. Biggest lighthouse in U.S.. Early history of area. Provides important historical information and allows exploration of a beautiful national landmark. A national treasure. Educational. American landmark. Boating wouldn't have been possible. Preservation is beautiful and the lighthouse. Light house. History! Great significance! Tallest light house in North America. Love the history, great job all around. A symbolic venue that demonstrates the rich history of the Hatteras region. Our history is right here! Tallest light house in NC and North America. Very important history to preserve for future generations. Preservation of our coast line and historic significance of Light Houses. Park ranger Skylar Dempsey was very courteous, ---- information and professional-she did a great job! Outerbanks have unique historical who ---- significance. Excellent area for kids to swim safely. OBX is great. Show's America's beauty! Important to preserve history.  Natural land, seashore. Nice beach. History, beauty. Silly question. Tremendous facility for ---- state people ---- who went to go to the ---- Outer Banks. It's beautiful here line and protected wild life areas! Nature, animals, light house, beauty, preserving dunes and wet lands.  1st national seashore.  Fragile environment, needs to be preserved. Important piece of national maritime history and cultural history of the East Coast. Huge historical and geological. It's role as an aid to navigation, there are very few light houses existing in the US, they are spread out making it difficult for anyone to see multiple ones and not all are open to the public to climb. A place for recreation and to learn about history. It's the tallest (brick) lighthouse in North America and has played an important role in history. The lighthouse was amazing and the history of the lighthouse was great to learn about. Keep it up! The preservation of the natural state of the sea shore of cape hatteras. Should be opened for visitors year round. ABSOLUTELY. Lack of commercialized businesses, quietness, location. Protecting wildlife, human recreation balancing ----. Natural wildlife park (deer, animal) and tourist destination. Surf break that has been here for a long time. Natural beach.  Nice to drive on beach. We need to protect natural places like this. Preservation of habitat for birds/breeding.  History/unique area for camping. Preserving the seashore is ---- for me.  I am okay with perimeters. Yes, lighthouse! The preservation of wildlife and sand dunes are key. We learned all about the nature and the history of the lighthouse. Historic lighthouse well preserved and keepers house with interpretive displays. Lighthouse and cape area. Help guide ships in safe. Just awesome.  Great park, great place. The beauty. 0 ---- fallen sailors and last ----. 0 Awesome.  Natural seashore. Natural beauty. Not sure.  To me it's the best place ----. The most important thing about the park is that it will keep the place safe from horrible corporations for generations to come. This is by far the best National Park we have visited. Very.  Came here when I was younger. Don't know! The Lighthouse. Great Parks. The lighthouse and its historical significance in the Outer Banks. Preserving a portion of the spectacular outer banks in its natural state. History and lighthouses. Landmark in honor of all the ships and people that were lost. History of America. Awesome. The history of Lighthouses in North America. Largest Lighthouse, fragile eco system. Historical. It's place in history all the way back to the Civil War when the original ---- was removed to prevent it from being stolen. Natural environment, historical reference. The history of this Lighthouse throughout many Wars, etc. Preservation of Lighthouse and nature trails and beaches. The history. Wonderful history! You have to preserve history to learn from for the future. This park has both a historical and an ecological significance to the nation. The history of lighthouse houses for the future and the cost of preserving that history is extremely important. The trails, so much to see and do. Historical significance at a ----. Historical significance and offers a unique living exhibit of island life in the Eastern seaboard. Learn about ---- era.  With gas-light houses are a thing of the past. Natural significance and the barrier ---- and the natural and animal features it presents. I have no idea. Just arrived, ---- ---- the ---- ----. Very. It's ----, what else can I say lighthouse is awesome. Teaching children and adults the history and challenges facing the barrier islands. Beautiful natural ----, not our commercialization. Peaceful and relaxing!"
145,Natchez Trace Pkwy,NATR,"History of Natchez Trace and MS. Teaching history, understanding history. History, sets the scene of the past via a meaningful non commercial way. It's beauty, nature to observe. History of the ---- trail. Historical and beauty. Very important and very little national attention. It is very significant. So interesting to be able to walk the same path. The importance of showing people how we lived and worked historically is very important in our fast paced modern world. To remember the sacrifice that was paid to build our country. Very interesting. Old trail. Keep safe past history, save today's woodlands. Don and wife did a nice job. As a family it was a great way to learn the history of MS. History of the area and general knowledge. Excellent-important part of U.S. history. History of Mississippi, ---- settlement of ----. Historical perspective of area, it' settlement and growth. Historical route-evolution of travel in this area. 0 Allows one to experience history. The history along the ---- Trace is very interesting-so glad you're here to share it with us. People should know more about this. History of Natchez Trace, of commerce and settlement. It was important in the settlement of this part of the country. Very important and valuable. To document the history of the Natchez Trail and life/travel along it. Important. Connectedness of the nation. Historical. Preserving our history. The history is fascinating at the Native Americans, French, English, wars, culture, scenery, wildlife-everything. Preservation of early nineteenth century history. Very educational. Bicycling tourism. Learning about the trace has been fascinating and has encouraged me to learn more. Historical info. Historic ---- for trade, ---- and traffic along the Mississippi and over view of Indian heritage. History of our country. Historical-giving, teaching history about commerce along the Mississippi River, Natchez Trace.  Also showing the ----, lifestyle during that time period. History. The old ---- ---- and history of Mississippi. Historical. Preserving history. Very significant. History of the Boatmen. To preserve an earlier way of life. The preservation of our history is critical to our future. Well kept.  Informative. ----,----, settlement. History of Boatmen and Indians. It's one of the oldest structures on the trace. History of boatmen traveling with goods from Ohio Valley down to commercial areas of Natchez, Vicksburg and New Orleans. Wonderful historic site offering a look back in time to some of people who built this nation.  Use your imagination. History as it pertains to the Natchez Trail while it was in use at that time and its purposes. History for future generations.  Significance of the house and women who owned it and ran it. Historic inn was very interesting. Civil war use.  Preservation of history. History of many peoples. Wonderful way to absorb early settlers and slave trade. It is a beautiful quiet drive-history of the trace is interesting. History and environmental diversity; Native American life. Very important part of expansion of the country. Learning the history. especially 1790-1820 period. To kept our history. Priceless. History. The ability to understand historic life, also to understand Indian history. To tell the stories of what made America the country it is. Preserving our past and teaching us for our future. The beauty of the parkway. The routes and significant sites dating back to the 1800's and used during the Civil War. Immersion in the history of this part of the country. Historic and nature preserved. I love the ----, I've been using it since the mid-seventies. A pathway that connected the old Southwest to the settled nation.  It's a pathway that multiple centuries of differing peoples used to travel, and their use of it has left tangible markers. Historical. It is a unique blend of history and nature, with a glimpse into pre-Columbian Amer. A huge portion of America's history is represented along the ----it must be preserved for future generations. Very important. Historical, cultural, environmental. Education-enjoyment. Historical background. Historically interesting. History. Indian mounds, well placed markers of information. Non commercial, postal rd. Old road. Historical value; recreational ---- History can be relived. Lots of history on the Indian tribes, De Soto.  Nice review of what we learned in high school and middle school. Early history/Native American history. Enjoyed very nice. Generational from Natchez Indians displaced to Ohio river men traveling to the move of folks settling the south. Historic roadway. It's a national treasure which preserves our history as well as  giving us a respite from Urban life. Roadway from Natchez to Nashville. To preserve a history of Americans, ancient and recent, its culture and a place of natural beauty, what a diverse park. Very nice. Very significant, history of 8000 years. Wow! A lot! Historical, archeological cultural and natural wonders! Nature. The beauty of this amazing manicured trail. Uniqueness. Historical and cultural landmark. Very important to keep them open and staffed to keep the history alive for future generations. History ---- south. A few more bathrooms. So glad its here. A reminder that we are not the only ones who traveled this way. History. The trace not only following nature but history. History, nature. History. It is significant to ---- the history of the area.  Understanding how people made this living-selling products ---- ---- and new ---- ----. Very high, and supportive. History of the time and Indian culture. Sense of history.  Scenic beauty.  Regional perspective. History. It remembers our history, ---- ---- Native Americans, and as well IS PART of our history. It allows us to understand the history of significance from east to west as our country developed as well as all those who cause ---- who ---- the trail. Its history that needs to be preserved so future generations can enjoy. Remembering the old way to get goods and people from point A to point B. It is very historic.  I don't think it is very well known to many people. To educate people on national culture early settlers, ---- ----, and how they intertwined. Ancient ---- retained for use by the greater public. A reminder of the history paving from Natchez, MS to Nashville, TN. An important part of American history. Preserves the history of the area. Very significant, somewhat untold story. Without such ---- connecting areas, national ---- would not have been forged. 1st National Rd. in southwest used for trade military travel, and Native American travel. Connecting road of historic southwest. Historic roadway. History preserved. Old ----. Old road of southwest. Old roadway that connected Nashville and Natchez. The ecological system and historical significance is awe-inspiring. The history of Native Americans who used the trace. The National Road. To get from here to there. We're just over 300 of the 410+ sites we will make them all. We've traveled this ---- for yrs.-over 50 yrs.-enjoyed. We started in Nashville and headed south.  Found info going south limited until we go to Tupelo where center was excellent with history displays providing contact to what we'd already seen. Keep our heritage for future generations. Route to slow down and stop to see places/things along the way and to learn the history of the areas. Historical development.  Indigenous people's and relationship to development of nation. Beautiful undeveloped/non commercial ---- a beach from normal signs, etc. Preserve history. History and education. Super history in our nation. Teaching respect of nature. History and untouched beauty of nature. The people that lived near it and used it years ago. Historical perspective. Of great significance. Good to preserve history. It's natural beauty. Thanks. History. Maintain and preserve history of its importance to American heritage. Painless history over the ten thousand years of the area.  ---- details a very beloved approach. Preservation of history. The history of the American Indians and the civil war. Very important. ----. Historic roadway. Historical origins of our country from B.C. to present. History of the Civil War and it's people. Old Southwest road, postal road. Remembering the ancient peoples of the area. Roadway. Significant part of American history. Very historical-We have visited the ---- ---- and exhibit many times esp. raising our children. Generations traveling along the trace. It is an essential part of our heritage. Very significant. Loved it overall.  Great history, exhibits, pastoral beauty.  A unique thread of road and wonderful bike ride.  Stopped at most of pull offs. Capturing the importance of the old Natchez trace and pointing out significant locations. For locals as well as visitors to learn about the history of the trace. Preserves history of ""frontier"" and early transportation. Good history lesson. History, preservation. This is great.  The Volunteer Jan Smith was very informative and friendly. Describe the early development of Nation and destruction of Native property. Important to preserve, for the future. Keeping history alive for future generations. See how people lived years ago. Souther history. To inform the current generations how our Nation has developed, the importance of studying our history and to protect our Nation. Celebrate the historical sig. of the ----.  Enjoy the scenery, learn about nature. Celebration of our historical heritage. History. To preserve both history and nature for present and future generations. Education, ""Enjoyment of the People"". Natchez Trace was used for a long time and that heritage should be preserved. Preserving a portion of our history and natural beauty of area. Rich in history and beautiful scenery. Historical significance of it's use from pre-historic times to ---- times.  Preserving history of an important travel path way.  Also preserving the ecosystems it ----. One of the best places we've traveled that reveals a part of our country's history/geography that links ancient cultures, early American and present day.  So glad it's been preserved. An excellent service to witness the beauty of your country-Australia. We drove the Natchez Trace-it preserved significant indigenous sites early America historical sites and the natural beauty of the geography. Valuable for learning about route and activities along the way for early travelers as well as about the early people living in the area. History of the area and an Indian parkway from Natchez to Nashville."
146,Brown v. Board of Education NHS,BRVB,"Very important! The national significance is the progression of A-A freedoms in the U.S. and how the court case affected education. History and education. Very significant advancement towards equal rights for everyone. Reminds us (me) how much more remains to be worked out on the issue of race in America. Education. It provides a real-life experience and factual info about the history of segregation of blacks and overcoming it. Education and awareness are the best route to drive change to bring about equality for all people. Historically significant. It helped me (write) understand the difficult path that ---- of education for all has followed, and the part that Topeka played. Supreme court decisions, integration/race relations. An example of the ongoing attempt of the black community to make the U.S. recognize human rights. As a teacher and parent, I've heard about Brown vs. Board of Education forever.  So exciting to see actual place and pick up teaching materials for my students and own kids. A mile stone on the road to ending segregation and racism. Ending segregation. Great explanation of civil rights era. It shows how far we have come and how much further we still must go. Major step forward racial situation. Historical. The significance of the demolishing of separate but equal. To educate people on the racial inequalities of the U.S. and the struggles for equality. Recognition of the levels of segregation in the Jim Crow era. To show how segregation affected people and how it changed. Extremely important.  This was a great experience for our kids. This was very interesting in helping us understand the role Brown vs. Boe played in our history. It was a major court case that changed policies! A place to learn about and reflect upon a landmark case in our country. I believe it's extremely important we must never forget the injustices of the past, lest they become the injustices of the future. To preserve the work of previous generations to abolish racial tension. It is significant to learn about the legacy of segregation in the United States. I am very interested in continuing programs for equality of rights on our country.  Without knowing where we started, how can we understand where we want to go? Desegregation schools, human rights. Promoting equality for all. These lessons still apply today big-time. This park is incredibly significant.  It is a place to remember the sacrifices of civil rights activists and learn about civil rights history. To understand our nation's history and the need to ---- the work against prejudice! Historical value of the struggle and focus on current thinking on difficult issues. It's history that should not be forgotten! To educate on desegregation and how hard people fought, physically, emotionally and legally, to integrate. Very high. TREMENDOUS, wonderful. I believe as a person living in the U.S. this is an integral part of my history.  This honors those people. An educational experience all young children should have to see. Sharing the ongoing struggle for equality and civil rights for all. Commemorating a historic national legal case and turning point. Legal decisions and implementation of court decisions. The history and ongoing fight against racism. The need for integration could be more clear in the current context, but the history/currency was powerful. To inform and remind us of racial segregation and the history, the struggle to change it. Historically (nationally and locally) it's good to remind people of the unpleasantness of our history. Critical to see. Desegregation. We need to remember our history. It presents very important events in U.S. history.  It helps educate children and adults about the significance of the Civil Rights movement. The impact on schools relating to integration and also impact on future life in U.S. and world. It is important for all generations to understand the history and struggle for racial equality. Interesting, informative, sad. Part of civil rights history. Such important history to remember in these trying times. To maintain the impact of equal rights for all groups of people. Very significant. Powerful exhibits showing the importance of Brown V. Board in terms of our country's civil rights fight. Re-enforces the importance of education as a civil right and the process taken to establish that in U.S. history. It helps educate the public about the struggle of African-Americans to gain civil rights. Preserving cultural history. Preserving history. A powerful monument to an incredibly difficult (and ongoing) section of our nation's history. Equality in Civil Rights and education. EXTREMELY significant! Learning about our history. Very critical! Educational. Equal rights for ALL. Illustrates the history of segregation in public schools and teaches that there's more to be done. The national significance of this park is paramount to the advancement and education of this nation's history. Truth and justice. Very significant. Very significant. Very! The significance was to show the history of Brown v. Board of Education. To commemorate and explain struggles and challenges (and successes) of desegregation. Civil rights and desegregation. A key place of history representing a national swing in the fate of ensuring civil rights are afforded to African-Americans. It shows the value and continued effort of USA's development towards equality. Brown vs. The Board of Education was a pivotal case in the U.S. history.  Helped shape education today. I had a job in the ---- ---- schools due to Brown.  Forty YEARS! The significance is the continued struggle of African-Americans to achieve equality. This represented a turning point in American history and serves as an inspiration to people around the world. Seeing the building is important as it was one of the cases. I can't give an adequate in a few words, but all people should understand how the past has influenced equality of races-history matters. It is very historically important and holds great meaning that everyone should experience. Critically significant. The ---- segregation of education in America. Extremely significant and important to our nation, especially now.  This park is about America, about equity.  We need to know and we need to examine now. Civil rights, importance of education, the importance of doing what is right and to continue to fight for what's right!"
147,Kings Mountain NMP,KIMO,"It gives a sense of pride of American history, patriotism and public duty. Turning point in a break from British rule. Kings Mountain National Military Park keeps alive the memory of this turning point in the Revolutionary War. Significance is to give a visual presentation of the Battle fought there in 1780. Battle of Kings Mtn.-turning point of the War between the States. One of several battle grounds where British loyalist were defeated/one of several to establishment of our government. It turned the tide of the revolutionary war. To commerate the importance of the Battle of Kings Mountain to the outcome of the revolutionary war. 1. Shows what determined individuals can do.  2. Demonstrates the power of self determination.  3. States the beginnings of the Country and hardships of early Americans. Preserving the history of the battles fought in our state. Turning point of revolutionary war.  Patriotism of back country man. Turning point of the Revolutionary War. Turned the life of the Revolutionary War!  Should forever be remembered and preserved! History and beauty. It tells the story of a vital battle during our Nation's founding. We learned how important the South was in the Revolutionary War.  Beautiful trees, everything clean.  Very nice. Preserving our national heritage. Pretty high, because of it's claim as a turning point in the revolutionary war. An essential victory for the Colonists during the American Revolution. It was a turning point in making the British surrender. Fills a big gap between Boston/Concord and Yorktown by telling importance of the war in the South that did lead to Yorktown. Of course! Beautiful!  Loved the trails, book/gift store, film and museum! An important and valuable, significant historical battlefield. It signifies one of the major turning points of the revolutionary war, along with the battle of Sarasota! The courage to stand up for freedom cannot be done without the unity of communities. Historical, cultural and environmental significance to all Americans and our foreign guests. Need an excellent/outstanding/awesome space to mark.  Very enjoyable way to spend Memorial Day! Learning the history of this park and it's significance in history. Very important in the birth of U.S. Battle of Kings Mtn-relevant to our country's establishment. Battle that turned in ---- ---- ---- war in the south. Very significant, also significant to my family as my 4 x great grand father was part of the battle at Kings Mountain. Freedom comes at a cost. Important battle and revolutionary war. Very important. Very nice park.  Well done. Very significant enjoyed! We should never forget those who paved the way. Turning point of American Revolution. The turning point of the revolutionary war.  So many lost lives fighting for freedom from oppression. Happy Memorial Day! Remembering the importance of the sacrifice of the Patriot ---- to pay for America freedom. Very good at historical presentation. Commemorates Revolutionary War battle that turned tide toward Americans. It was the deciding battle of the War of Independence.  Very important! Heritage. Telling history. A memorial to the bravery of the common man who helped establish this great nation. To help us learn about our past and how we fought for our beliefs. Blow for independence. The park ---- in the Revolution War in which the ---- helped turn the ---- in the South. Very significant for learning about America's independence. Historical information to understanding our early history of US. Unknown gem that should be well promoted for every one to know about the turn for the Southern portion of the Revolutionary War. Kings Mountain Battle turning point of Revolutionary War. History Information. Represents our Country and what the history is! Saving history. The development of a new Nation, fighting for independence, and preserving our Country's history. Turning point in Revolutionary War. Outstanding-really important. The turning point of the American Revolution in the South. Victory. American Revolution-tide turned here. High.  Glad it's here-came to this region specifically for these NPS history sites. Significant point of the war/start of the nation. A memorial to those that fought for our independence. Highlights the was in the south, which was treated so lightly in school history. It started our freedom and independence of our great nation. Major battle won/we are here. Overall, very good.  However I have visited several such sites and each is ""the turning point of the war""!!  (Which one is it?) A very ---- of the was fought in the war. Informing citizens, young and old, of the struggles our nation has experienced. Reminder of nation history. One of the significant turning points to the American Revolution. Letting people experience nature with all the clean cutting forest are becoming extinct! Our history. Great! Very well maintained and the rangers were very helpful in making our visit very pleasant. A great patriot victory should be known to people. As a national ---- park, it is the site of a crucial turning point of the Revolution in the south. Being ----, history information has been important to us and should be to future generations.  Hope other families will enjoy it all. Everyone that sees this park should be reminded of the sacrifices of patriots who valued freedom from British rule. I know its role in the history of the American Revolution. I'm struck that so much attention is paid to Civil War ""turning points"".  It's fun to learn about and Rev. War ---- point. Important to the war of Independence. It is important to be reminded of our past to help create vision for the future. Pivotal in ending the Revolutionary War in American favor. Turning point of the Revolutionary War. Cleanliness, courtesy from park employees. Great experience! How the Revolutionary War was won.  A deciding victory. It was the battle that changed the course of the southern campaign in the Americans favor. It's significant in the fact that it helps keep the history of the country alive for my children. Our history and proud of it! Our history. Phenomenal park.  I appreciate the NPS, its ----, and its services. The Battle of Rings Mountain. The park allowed for awareness regarding the trails and risks that the men endured to secure the America we know today. To preserve our proud habitat for all future generations. Turned the tide in America's quest for freedom.  Many brave people died for our freedom. Turning point in the south. Very significant. 0 It is a major point in how our country became free. History of the nation. Learning about the Revolutionary War. Turning the Rev. War. Keeping alive the memory of the American Revolution. Very important. Pivotal Battle of Rev. War. A historic and important battle for our country was fought here. Battlefield history and ---- wall. Crucial battle site in Colonial War. History education. It was the turning point in the Revolutionary War. Thank you for letting me see where my grandfather fought.  It gave me a great sense of pride. The Battle of Kings Mtn was the turning point in the American Revolution against Britain. This park commemorates and educates visitors about a significant tactical inflection point in the American War for Independence.  The insurgent warfare and brutality of the Southern Theatre of war are well documented. To honor Americans who fought and died here. To let the rest of the US understand the importance of the battles fought. Turns the tide of the Revolutionary War. War history. The brave citizens of America standing for liberty and overthrowing tyranny. To show how important that this battle was in 1980. It is important because of history of the Revolutionary War. A turning point in the Revolution. American history. Battle of KM. History of war. History-Battles of Liberty. History. Learning. The turning for the Revolution. Turned the tide of the war.  Carolina pride. Turning point in the Rev. War. Very good. We got our freedom. Major battlefield that helped us win the Revolution, however most younger people don't know and don't care. No sound from over head speakers. Honor the over the mountain men. Prevented the British from taking the South.  Destroyed their strategy to ""Flank"" Washington's troops. Shows dedication of freedom loving men. That we have a President rather than a Queen. Preserve and commemorate a key battle site of the revolutionary war-the turning point in the southern campaign that led to Yorktown! Coffee would be good. Helped prevent the English from getting to Virginia to help ---- Cornwall. Historical significance ---- ----. Part of the southern ---- of the ---- for ----."
148,Yellowstone NP,YELL,"Very unique geology, untouched scenery, abundant wildlife.  Nowhere on earth like it! Wild life and ecosystem.  Grant Village camp-not ----; ---- VERY helpful. Geological features unique in USA, refuge for native animal species. Historic sight. Beauty, wonder, preservation of past, present and future. To protect nature. Freedom and opportunity. Beauty. It is significant because it preserves animals and plants that would otherwise be destroyed by urbanization and inconsiderate people. The parks national significance is tremendous-it is a truly iconic ---- for American road trippers and ---- doorsmen. It's really cool. The first and the largest? Untouched land. Huge priority.  Very significant. As Americans we value our natural resources and want to preserve them.  You see things here that don't exist elsewhere.  Wonderful to have the park!  Thanks! Kindness respect. The natural beauty. First national park, wildlife. Keeping special natural open spaces clean, pristine, non-commercial for all to see, experience. How diverse and beautiful America is in original state. Best of nature parks.  Views like Yosemite, animals and thermal features.  True precious nature. It is a great place to see wildlife in the natural environment. To give the common public accessibility to natural attractions that they may not otherwise see. It was the first.  The example for the rest. Extremely important. It is significant to our nation.  Nature stuff is cool. I don't think in terms of Nat'l sign it.  It's just a great place for ---- life. Preservation of the wilderness. Glad it here! Beauty, wildlife, nature, family traditions. Established the National Parks Service. Very important by significant. Keeping wildlife diversity in that for everyone to experience. Saving the natural beauty and wildlife and wilderness for all ages to experience. To preserve the wild that was here before mass human population and keep us connected to the planet that supports us. The beauty it holds. It's a timeless show of America's great outdoors. National Treasure for all. Huge. Education, enjoyment through preservation. Preserving our natural resources for generations to come. International ---- of how nature should be ---- worldwide. Many geological features.  Lots of different environments.  High biological variability.  Good location to visit, but isolated and thus inaccessible for the vast majority. Animal habitat education.  Different landscapes.  Hot Springs. Staple of America. Still one of the best national parks. That it's preservation ---- area is ---- hopefully for all time. Something special to see that is nowhere else in the U.S.A. God's country is amazing wonderful opportunity for others to see it. Nature in the best way. I'm from U.K. ---- priceline ----. The wildlife and natural scenery. To see wildlife, plants-all nature undisturbed and in real America. History, respect for environment, and knowledge of science. It's a beautiful place with beautiful people. It symbolizes the wilderness and nature that people have forgotten to appreciate. Scenic beauty and natural resources recreation opportunities. Excellent. It's the first national park, created by initially by capitalism railroad lobbyists, but ultimately to preserve what we truly value. A reminder to us and to the world to take care of the earth. Remnants of what once was in our country. The unique geographical features that are on the ----. Natural experiences not available other places. The ability to see the Northwest territory in its natural state. One of the seven wonders of the earth. Awesome awesome awesome. Freedom. Heritage. Keeping what is natural. Love meeting/talking with the staff-awesome! Preservation of natural wonders. Preservation of natural beauty and prevention of commercial exploitation. To have such a large area for wildlife to be preserved. Preserve the natural beauty!  We visit every year. It is an example for protecting nature for other countries.  I am from Belgia, we love the wolves. Extremely important to preserve for the younger generation. Wildlife in natural setting, nature without people. It is wonderful that the parks exist to stop development and ensuring access to everyone. To preserve parts of our country (world) that are not natural anymore. A US treasure. First and best national park in the world. Shows the beauty of this country. Conservation connection to Western spirit and exploration. Preservation of National history and it's greatest features. Preservation of nature and history. It's a symbol of the whole country. The unusual abundance of natural attractions in one area. Geysers, wildlife geo formation etc. Nature-geysers and volcanic activity, wild life. A place of peace and beauty preserved for the generations to come.  A place unlike any other in the world. Natural beauty, thermal, geological features. Different types of eco systems and how they all work together. A place undisturbed.  Wild life and nature untouched. What our country was before it was established, built up. Be free, let all species be free and wild. Wilderness and wild life protection. Keeping wild life wild for all to see. 1st park. Learn a lot about how the 1st national park came about thru the trappers, drawings Indians etc. It is the most important national park we have. National resources are of eminent importance to future generations-we need to encourage next generations of ----. To preserve our countries natural beautiful environment. The volcanic activity and the wild life. The special and unique treasures it holds. Unique landscape, natural beauty, geothermal ----. Uniting people nation wide and world wide in appreciation of the out doors-I spotted license plates from 49 states during my week. Cannot compare to any other Nat'l preserve or monument.  Best there is! Explosive natural area allowed to see (---- by Maui) wild life, thermo features.  Forests, rivers/water falls. Geological and ecological preservation and appreciation. To preserve natural wildlife and land. Hall mark and national pride.  People from all over the world here. Extremely important, a treasure. 1st national park ---- precedent setting; outstanding unique natural enrichment worthy of preservation for the people. This park has a lot of history and helps the public understand the meaning of maintaining national and state parks for everyone. Protecting features. To see conservation action and natural environment in place.  To see nature the way God intended for it to be seen. It's very refreshing to see first hand that this beautiful area was set aside for it's pristine features. Enormous significance, change for urban dwellers to see and experience the magnificence of the natural world. It's uniqueness and preservation of animals and flora. Don't feed the bears. That land and natural history be preserved. Beauty and history. That it is preserved and protected the way it is, tells a lot about value this park has.  So ---- it is ---- it is protected for future youth visitors. The beauty the park was and the fact that every one can enjoy it. Priceless value in presentation, experiences that can be ---- here. It's the 1st national park heritage for our children.  The Go activity is amazing. Extremely important to the U.S., it's culture, heritage and future.  It represents all that is great about our country. Utmost importance. The uniqueness of nature and it's contribution to what makes the planet amazing. The beautiful and magnificent scenery. Interesting geological features.  So different from anywhere else in the world. Preservation of important wildlife and land. Unspoiled natural beauty, protect for future generations. Cannot be put in water in this time of technology. Beautiful, undeveloped land.  Tourist money, education. History of our nation-kept natural and available for everyone!! Unique landscape. Huge one of the must see ---- places in US. Volcano and wildlife. Available for all the experience. LOVED IT ALL. Spiritualness and being democratic in nature. Preserving natural areas especially for wildlife. Yellowstone is the first park.  ---- description.  Really enjoyed my visit. The teaching opportunities it offers to people about animals, nature and history.  It's also an amazing geological place unique to the USA. Respectful preservation of our nations beauty and honoring the efforts of our leaders in developing and preserving our parks system. History, wild life, etc. By far our favorite park! To give everyone the opportunity to see nature at it's best and in it's most natural state.  You can't see nature so beautiful in other places of the earth-nearly not as accessible as at Yellowstone. First; preservation of bison and other wild life. It was the first one and likely the best. Preserving the amazing variety of landscapes around us. Serves as history to our nation. Its historical, education value, as well as the significance of preservation. Its natural wonders. It's very valuable!  And where neutral areas should be protected to assure recreational opportunities and resources for future generations. Preservation of a unique geological features, pristine ecosystem which is historically evocative of our nation's westward expansion.  Our tax dollars are being used very well! 1. It holds unique geological and natural features found nowhere else.  2. The fact that it was preserved is significant. It is a beautiful setting which preserves Old West wildlife, culture, etc.. Very informative. To show how wonderful creation is by the Creator. Significant contribution to citizens and visitors. Education. History. Natural beauty, geysers, hot springs, wildlife, etc.. It is a national and worldwide geologic phenomenon! Significance is to preserve the wildlife and majestic beauty for centuries to come.  The more digital we become, the more important this park is. It contains among other things a hint of the vastness and beauty that made our forefathers wish to settle and it's sacred to the Native Americans. The best! To preserve our nation's unique natural beauty created by the one true God! Wow!  Gorgeous-well maintained, good markings! Wildlife sanctuary, impressive geological features. American history. Beauty. I hope the park inspires a love and appreciation of nature and motivates visitors to become conservationists. Natural wonders in U.S.A. are preserved and not destroyed by humans. Preserving wildlife and nature! The beauty our nature produces. The geological value. Preserve natural environment and wildlife for today and future generations. Preservation of wildlife, exceptional geologic show case, unique in the world. Great opportunity to learn about ----.  Please keep save. Very significant. To preserve ---- for all to enjoy. Protection of a valuable and diverse wilderness area and historic significance as the world's first national park. To keep for future generations to be able to admire. Preservation of wilderness-natural beauty and wildlife. Incredible beauty and unusual natural formations. It's history and beauty. Refuge for large game animals. 3/4 of the world's geysers, 1st national park saving the land for all to visit. It's a geological and geographical feature iconic for the entire planet. Obviously a ---- The diversity of landscape specifically the thermal areas. To preserve the beauty of the park for people to see for generations to come. It is a national treasure.  I've been all over the world and this is the most beautiful area I've ever seen.  It represents the best of America. Preserving the natural beauty of America and the wildlife within it. Symbol of pride and displays the country's diversity and beauty. Nature and beauty preserved. Accessibility and preserving of unique nature and understanding for geological processes. Protect wildlife and visitors. Unique terrain and wildlife.  Controlled area to be able to observe and test on ---- to the wildlife and terrain. It's a national icon and hopefully gets more Americans to support our entire park system. Great significance, history, wildlife,, and demonstrating a great respect for nature. Land preservation. Preservation of wilderness and education on the importance. Amazing.  Such a natural wonder and cost makes it available to all.  Perhaps it could be better publicized. Wildlife. Excellent opportunity for visitors to learn about geology and wildlife native to the area. Preservation of open space with its native flora and fauna. Unique native terrain and wildlife. Wildlife preservation. Enjoying and preserving ----."
149,Russell Cave NM,RUCA,"A lengthy and complete record of early human use and occupancy in the southeastern part of the current U.S.. Great shelter.  Wish we could go deeper in shelter. Old human shelter. Great.  It is very important for our children to learn these things. Open the cave again.  Put mannequins back.  Let us enjoy our natural resources!  We want to see them, too! Protecting Native American culture. Longest and most complete archeological records in the Southeast region. The natural resources provided shelter for thousands of years. It was ---- over 10,000 years ago. It shows Alabama history. Preserving the artifacts and home of some of North American's earliest inhabitants. Early pre-historic cave. The complete archeological sequence of Southeastern prehistoric cultures (Paleo, Archaic, Woodland, and Mississippian). It salvages Native American history. Archeological records of humans oldest and complete. Historical and geological significance. Most complete archeological records of human occupation.. Rare place to find artifacts from so many periods of pre-history, history. Retains area heritage. The archeology and study of native cultures need to be preserved for future generations. Beautiful scenery and amazing preservation of history! Historical context. Largest, most complete archeological records in area. One of the longest and most complete archeological records of human occupation. Ongoing research work is an excellent demonstration to the public of the value of government funded archeology investigation. The complete archeology found at the cave shelter is a great record. The geological features and natural resources provided shelter for thousands of years. Very significant-all the centuries of history. Record of people that lived here. Historical importance. Prehistoric site. Has been inhabited for many years. Ten thousand years of habitation. Geological formation, Indian history (Native American). History of native culture. Important historic and archeological site. Ten thousand years of life/history. To show a cool looking cave. The park holds very ---- sites of Native American use. Early example of human settlement before the creation of the United States. The parks shows the history of our ancestors and how they lived. A unique view of the past culture. Archeological record of human occupation.  Geological features-cave. Excellent. History. More than 10,000 years of habitation. Native American history. Natural and human history. Native Americans. Cave was used by people 10,000 years ago and also during Arciaic, Woodland and Mississipian periods. Caves. Excavation and discovery of prehistoric and Indian culture. History of 10,000 yrs.. It has 10,000 years of habitation. It's an arch site. Russell Cave has been the site of over 10,000 years of human habitation. Signs telling how far to go. Ten thousand years lived in the cave. Ten thousand years of continual use. Ten thousand years of habitation. Ten thousand years of history. Ten thousand years of occupation and historical facts. Ten thousand years of occupation-Palee, Mississippi. The combination of resources and geology of Russell Cave. The history it holds is so interesting! This site has archeological records of life in the Southeast region. Very beautiful.  Big significance to teach generations to come about our past. You can see the Paleo through to the Woodland era in one place.  That's great.  Very significant. Incredible insight on early inhabitants of North America. The people groups history found in one place. One of the longest and most complete archeological records of human occupation. Everything.  It describes our nation's early people and their history/story. Has been used as a shelter for 9,000 years. The historical and archeological records are impressive, as is the combination of resources and geology.  Ten thousand years of traceable occupation is amazing. The cave. Cultural and natural preservation. The Russell Cave and its finding same. It protects a unique landmark. Preservation of indigenous cultural artifacts, cultural heritage.  Very worthwhile. Ten thousand years of history. Archeological records. It is one of the oldest regularly inhabited areas in North America. Preserve history of indigenous people and geology. Teaching people about the past and how to treat nature.  Also, park ranger Linda was wonderful. Yes. Historical Indian habitation. Longest habitation of cave in the East.  Ten thousand years of use. The back history of the area. It shows the history of Native Americans from different periods. Long cave that Peleo people used. To learn about life in America prior to the founding of the U.S.. Beautiful and educational. Combination of resources and geology. Through the artifacts retrieved from the cave, we were able to understand advancements of Native Americans. Both info and sites very well explained and very enjoyable. Beautiful landscape and fascinating history. I liked learning about the history of the Russell Cave. Ten thousand years of continuous habitation. History! Ten thousand years of continuous habitation by the prehistoric people. Great for history. Keeping our heritage active. Longest and most complete archeological records in the Southeast region. Our past. Archeological finds to determine the origin of the humans that lived here, plus any pre-historic finds of animal presence. Displays history preserved for the community. Early history. For people to see historically how people lived and our country has developed. Great for remembering the history. Great hiking trails!  Rangers were very friendly and great with kids. It's very educational. Knowledge of prehistoric cave dwellings. Longest and most complete archeological records in the Southeast region. Pre-historic history. Ten thousand years of humans living in shelter. The combination of resources and geology of Russell Cave. The concept of time, 10,000 BC. The history of the Indians that used the caves as shelter. To learn about the prehistory of North American and the Southeast and the indigenous cultures who lived and live here. VERY important. Very significant. Archeological site. Combination of resources and geology of Russell Cave. Indian history and artifacts recovered. Longest and most complete archeological records in the Southeast region. Really enjoyed my visit. Russell Cave has been the site of over 10,000 years of human habitation. Russell Cave has had over 10,000 years of human habitation. Ten thousand years of constant habitation is showcased. Ten thousand years of continuous habitation by the historic people. Ten thousand years of continuous habitation found in the geological features. Ten thousand years of continuous occupation. Ten thousand years of habitation. Ten thousand years of history. Ten thousand years of inhabitance. Ten thousand years of inhabitation. The combo of resources and geology. The geological features and natural resources provided shelter for thousands of years. The Indians. The Native American history. To preserve history and to educate! To show our history. Cave was inhabited by cavemen. History. Early history. We enjoyed it once we got here. Historical value. Archeological finds of Indians. Artifacts. Early settlement of man in the U.S.. One of the longest and most complete archeological records of human occupation. Cave and how it was used. Ten thousand years of habitation.  Wonderful history.  Beautiful site. Culture. Indian history, cave site, artifacts. Oldest continuous habitat.  Native American culture. Yes!  Very neat cultural and historical relevance.  Also, naturally beautiful and unique. Archeological significance to the nation.  Learning about the culture and nature of the people before us. It is amazing how long people have lived here. It preserves an area that's been inhabited for an incredibly long time. Longest and most complete archeological records in the Southeast region. Longest and most complete archeological records of human occupation. One of the longest and most complete archeological records of human occupation. Ten thousand years of continual habitation is important to preserve. Ten thousand years of continual occupation by prehistoric people-one of the longest and most complete records of human occupation. The historical presence of the ancient people that inhabited the cave. To educate people about the contribution of the early Indian settlers. One of the longest and most complete archaeological records of human occupation. Used as refuge/hotel for Native American people. Houses the most significant archeological site in the American South East! Early Native American experience. Early history of man. The archaeological evidence of previous peoples lives. The fact that it represents 10,000 years of human history. 10,000 years of continuous habitation by pre historic people. Are Alabamian history. Continual occupation for 10,000 years. Continually occupation till 1600. Historical significance and archaeological record. Huge archaeological importance. I brought grandchildren to teach the history of the national park.  Their age 3 and 6. It shows the history of Ala. and the first settlers here. Longest and most complete archeological records southeast. The preservation of the history is critical. Very important!!  Our natural history must be preserved for all to see. History of area. It is important to the history of the people in the area. The recognition of Native American and prehistoric cultures that are not usually discussed in great detail. Native peoples who lived here for thousands of years and made their mark upon the land. Nice to learn about the importance of cave. Unique archeological site. High. Natural history. The caves was the significance of this park. It preserves nature and teaches history. Learning about the cultures who were alive before us. Significant to Native Am. history. History and culture of this area. History.  Physical and visual contact with the past. The history behind the park and relaying it to the visitors. The history of the people in the area is interesting and good to know how far we as a people have done. A time price documenting the evolution of civilization. It helps people experience historic events and learn about history. Artifacts, Indian history. It contains artifacts from some of the older hunting groups from the region. The archeological finding of the Indians. Inhabitation of 10,000 years. It has preserved cave that has been inhabitated for over 10,000. Early record of native people; tools and culture of prehistoric humans; awesome geological site. Thousands of years of history preserved. History. 0 Archaeological records, Native American demonstrations, nature resources. Great, unknown area. People from over 10,000 years ago lived there and their lifestyle can be learned about because the cave is preserved. Russell's Cave-awesome. The artifacts and amazing 10,000 yrs ----.  It is ---- incredibly beautiful. The history, culture and scenic beauty of our country. The park highlights the archaeological record of all major Native American periods.  It's significance is invaluable to our history as a species and nation. Archeological records. Continuous prehistoric habitation for over 10,000 years in cave shelter.  Paleo Archiac, ---- and ---- period. Deep archaeological history rare and invaluable. Enjoyed everything. History, beauty. History. In my opinion the national significance of this park is how cool it is to see what it looked like back in the old days. It is a beautiful place with MUCH cultural significance.  10,000 years of habitation WOW! Longest and most complete archaeological records in the southeast region. Of earlier cultures love Indian history!  I collect arrowheads. Preserve culture and history of the native people. Preserving the history of our land. The combination of resources and geology. To portray the natural and man made historical significance of the area. Very important!  So glad we are preserving our early history-beautiful country. One of the longest and most complete archeological records of human occupation. 10,000 yrs of history. The preservation of such a great history of human habitation. Native American history and culture. Longest and most complete archeological records in the Southeast. Great rangers. Very important about prehistoric people. Stages of civilization well portrayed. Archeological sequence of prehistoric culture. Ten thousand years habitation. The Native American culture. It allows people to see what life was like before European's came. 10,000 years of continual occupation. Complete archeological sequence of Southeastern prehistoric culture (Paleo, Archaic, Woodland and Mississippi). Insight of how far back in history native Americans lived here before us 10,000 years wow! The geological features and natural resources provided shelter for thousands of years. To preserve history and nature. Preserving history-enjoyed bringing our grand daughters to show them about prehistoric times and sites-wonderful archeology site. Documents small piece of Indian history in US. Archaeological significance. Archeological significance of inhabitance for over 9,000 years. It's a place that preserved a lot of history and is very educational. 0 Very interesting time of history. Thousands of years of history. 10,000 years of history. Archaeological and historic site. Historical education about the cultures of early humans here. 10,000 years of history. Heritage of native Americans and pre historic people of America.  Well preserved information from 10,000 years ago. The natural resources and valuable information provided by park. Native American history. Oldest continuous occupied habitation ---- fish hooks. To preserve the cave. 10,000 years history. 10,000 years of continuous habitation by the pre historic people, and the geological features plus natural resources provided by the rock shelter. 10,000 years of history. A preserved historical site ----. Archeological sight for many different tribes.  10,000 years of continual habitation. Geological features, 10,000 year old human inhabitants. I think it was informative, my kids learned a lot. It was very interesting and fun. Longest and most complete archeological records in the Southeast region. The cave shelter was used by pre historic people 10,000 years ago and continually used until 1600's. The long historic record of the cave.  10,000 years of human occupation.  The geological and natural resources provides shelter for 1,000 years. To learn about the archeological sequence of Southeastern pre historic cultures. Very important for America's natural history.  Thank you! The long archeological record of human habitation. Archeological significance. Neat artifacts from Indian cave dwelling. Archeological value from long habitation by native Americans. 10,000 years of continuous habitat by the prehistoric people.  Mississipian, Archaic, Woodland and the Paleo from Asia. History. Oldest occupied site in Southeast region.  Archeological/cultural significance to native peoples. 10,000 years of continuous habitation by the pre historic people (Paleo, Arachaic, Woodland and Missippian). This park is important for understanding early peoples living in America before arrival of Europeans. 10 thousand years of history. Historical timeliness. The archeological significance and geology of the area and cave. We have been coming here since 1973.  Always enjoy the peacefulness. National history. 10,000+ years of inhabitants. Large and complete archeological records in the area. This park ---- or nation's prehistoric history. Connection to Native American history. To teach people how pre-history Indians lived in present day Northern Alabama."
150,Cumberland Gap NHP,CUGA,"The ---- allowing easier access to the West. To keep history alive. The Westward expansion of our nation. Settlement of our nation. To remind people of the dedication of the early explorers to search the unknown and report their findings. It was key in beginning to expand our nation, ---- and exploring west of the 13 colonies. An important part of our national history.  The westward expansion of the U.S. History and understanding of the purpose and use of the land here when it was first settled. To preserve the history of America's expansion to the West. It helps to tell the story of where we began as a Nation. Dan Boone's Wilderness Trail is second ONLY to Lewis and Clark's Voyage of Discovery. 0 Historical significance is very high. The Park gives real quality to living in this community. Preserving the ""gateway to the west"" without which our country would look very different today. Historical significance of the area, preservation of natural beauty. This park gives us a perspective on the challenges of western expansion as well as the innovative thinking of those trail blazers. Extremely significant. No opinion. Historic, nature. The views from the pentacle views of God's creation. The opening of the Ohio River valley. Valuable info to pass along to our children. It's just super cool. Aesthetic pleasure-fun for kids. Gateway to the West. Paramount in the expansion West. Important for all the young.  Here with my grandsons.  Teaching them about our past. History and setting (views). The unification of different communities and cultures within this area. Gateway to the West. Historical significance of Westward Expansion of U.S. Movement of Settlers westward-historical natural beauty. Family heritage and homestead. History. There is a lot of valuable history info. Very high. The Gateway to the West. The main route West for early American Settlers.  Daniel Boone Country. Preservation of the cultural record and the ""Movement West"". To learn about history in KY. Very nice! Huge-even more pioneer history would be appreciated. Historical emphasis on part the Gap played in Westward expansion. It is important to see the geography of the Country. The history of the area Important for seeing beauty for every one. The history behind it is very influential and educational. View over all and seeing three States from one spot. Glad it's preserved very nice! Love it here travel from Knoxville, TN often! Passage of moving people, supplies, and expansion of lands west.  Some signs were removed from the posts on the trails. The gateway for settlers and pioneers to travel, the history is astonishing. Ties communities together. Scenery, beauty. Importance in opening west, history of exploration, scenic wonders. The trail for people to go west. The place where Westward expansion really began. I don't know! This is the place where people went west after revolutionary war! Provided a path to the west. For all the people who blazed the trail through the Cumberland gap. Cumberland Gap. Important for settlers traveling. Westward expansion. To preserve once ---- a natural treasure which has played a major part in US history. Continuing west. Daniel Boone. Excellent presentation and answer all our questions. Will encourage our friends to come and visit. Lincoln. The gap where the pioneers were first able to cross the mountains to the west. The lands. Gateway to the West-one of the most significant places in U.S. history. Historical. Great valuable life experience for happy feelings in life's ventures. Important to not pave over our history. Good history of area. Tri State View. Very significant due to Settlers going. It served as a gateway to westward expansion in the early U.S. Excellent history resource for the Cumberland Gap and area. The views."
151,Pea Ridge NMP,PERI,"Being a new resident of Arkansas from Chicago, Pea Ridge NMP is a big battle west of the Mississippi that shaped the future of the area.  It's far away but worth the time! Battlefield Preservation. To look back in time to our heritage and to be in the shoes of those who had fallen and lost lives or limbs for freedom. Civil war. This park preserves one of the important Civil War battles. Site of a significant Civil War battle that contained and early eliminated the Confederate Army in the ---- - Mississippi. Memorial to lives lost a turning point in the war and remembrance of poor military decision making. Civil War, Trail of tears and to protect the resource. History of Civil War. The Civil War. Civil War battle, Arkansas history. It helped keep the rebels out of Missouri. Part of the larger Civil War that freed the slaves. It was a major battle in the Civil War. We must not forget the cost of freedom. An excellent facility to remind us what others sacrificed to make our Country-others besides those fighting in places like Gettysburg. History of the Pea Ridge Civil War Battle. Civil War and Trail of Tears history. Honor Civil War soldiers who died here. Saved Missouri from Lincoln saved Union. Civil War history. It was the only Civil War battle with Indians. The human sacrifices for the preservation of the United States. It blocked a rebellion that would have brought destruction and chaos to America. Largest Civil War Battle West of Mississippi. History of lives lost for our country. Civil War history. Civil War history. Well kept and maintained. Continence of fight to push or keep Missouri in the Union.  We need ABSOLUTELY keep these Parks as to remember our history. Civil War Battle that saved Missouri from the Union. It was a pivotal battle that kept Missouri as a Union State. Loved to Civil War history. History."
152,Palo Alto Battlefield NHP,PAAL,"Not many people in other parts of the U.S. understand the U.S.-Mexican War and its importance, so this Park is doing important work to help people learn about it. Explains clearly the historical significance of the area. Explaining the Mexican War-perspective of both sides. Explains one of the battles between Mexico and America. Shows the relationships and boundaries before and after the U.S.-Mexican War of 1846. Very informational. Manifest Destiny. Very important picture of the boundary of Texas and Mexico. The National significance of this Park is to remember what our past had to go through and so it won't be forgotten. Important battlefield history. A valuable part of the Mexican American War. Insight into how the technological advantages of the US overcome the bigger Mexican army. It is the site of a battle of the American-Mexican War. Opening engagement of the Mexican War. The first major battle of the Mexican war. The focus or an almost unknown war that doubled the size of the USA. Battlefield and battle. We appreciated the non-commercial aspect of the site (vs. the Alamo).  And the respect shown for both sides of the battle. Very worthwhile. We should all reflect on the hardships of war. An excellent restating of the events leading to, of and following the 1845 conflicts and war with Mexico.  The manor of the history is sensitive ---- the ---- both side. This park, Palo alto, has huge national significance but is little known ---- of TX, which is a shame, as this battle was vital in ---- this region as U.S. territory. History of Rio Grand River.  Mexico was United States. Reminder of the part of U. S. history that many are unaware of. Texas Independence. Very great. It enlarged our country by a huge amount-at Mexico's expense. Significance of ""the start of the conquest of the world little by little,"" beginning with a weak country, and beginning at ---- ----. Informational about war between U. S. and Mexico. Expansion of the country. Thanks. The wars with Mexico for Texas. Interesting outdoors. Shows history of region-how the territory was gained by U. S. through war. Gives a larger picture of what this war meant and what it accomplished for the USA and Mexico. History for future generations. History-great review and learning for all. Teaching history to us of prior to the Civil War. The expansion of U. S.. History. To act as a memorial to men's bravery and damage caused by war. Considering it was the opening that created another 50% of our nation-very important. Cultural. Great significance.  A reason for U. S. expansion. History. One of the top; as stated in the film the battle here at Palo Alto was the beginning of the new great American growth. The history of our relationship with Mexico is an important part of our national and international heritage. This is the site of a crucial battle between Mexico and the U. S.. Understand the U. S.-Mexican War. Yes. Unique history, One of the few changes to San a Mexican-American War Battlefield.  This is a very significant event in US and Texas history!!! To keep American ---- alive for the next generation. A step on the way to territorial expansion, another example of manifest destiny. I love all Texas history. That it is open to the public and most of all shows you what use to be Mexican Territory and all of its history.  (Awesome). Very important as American and Mexican History!!  Respect for War and Death. Found our visit to be very informative.  Had never thought about this ----/was until our visit to Palo Alto. Western Expansion or US in 19th century. Doctrin of manafest destany. U.S. expansion. Very good to excellent. It taught me about Texas and the struggle involved in our westward expansion. To tell the story of the area for future generations. 0 It shows how ---- became a state and what Mexico lost as far as valuable land. Expansion of USA. To know more history about TX and the nation. Start of U.S. movement west. Start of Spanish/American War. Very important-where a battle was fought. This park helps in the understanding of the Mexi/Am. war and it's significant for U.S. today. Showing ---- history. I'm sorry our peoples could not find a way for both to enjoy this place in peace. The fight between the American and Mexican government. Better understanding about the war between Mexico and U.S. Good. Very significant because of it's importance to U.S. history. American history. Commemorating the pivotal battles of the Mexican-American War leading to the acquisition of Texas and the War and CA territories. Explain the history of the battle between US and Mexico for the ---- and the ----. History of Battles that formed our ----.  Artillery used in early ---- ----. Tells the story of a significant event and its importance to both nations! To learn more about this battle. Very important, continues. The manner in which population expansion took place.  Would recommend, at the Pavilion, a detailed man, in one place, the armies and their support units. To honor both nations on this significant battle. Amazing. Beautiful. Explains great part of our history. Great history. Great park, adventure and information. Helps explain the significant of the Mexican war. Historic value education about Mexican-American War, exchange of territories beauty of natural habitat, preservation for all. History of acquisition of Texas. It gave the U.S. a third of it's present territory. It is very good to remember history, but I hope to have a recreational area around Brownsville that tech and remember good things. It's a historic land that many had to die.  It's a cycle that has prevailed since the beginning of mankind. Remembering the Battle of Palo Alto. This is an important of USA, Mexico history. This war the beg. of the war that led tot he acquisition of a lot of Mexico's land. To learn of the expansion of us. Very important part off our history. It teaches the community about their own history. A major part of Texas History. Mexican-American War Interpretation. Describes a very confusing, complicated difference of opinions. Battles that determined the boundaries of the U.S. A lot of historical value. It's good to know the history of the countries. Keeping our Mexican heritage alive. Very informative. It's history. We feel this park has done a great service too the past history. Establishing Texas as part of the U.S. History of US and Mexico. Learning about the Mexican American War. The battle between US and Mexico to obtain the states of Texas, New Mexico, California from Mexico. The battle that expanded the US by ---- the land. Very important! This location is historical, so it is a great place to have a park. User-friendly history lessons are always worthwhile! Very important and not well recognized. Very significant. War between US and Mexico/expansion of US territory. It shows in detail the 1846 War. ---- mainly. A lot of history. Excellent, very well organized educational ---- excellent. Gave us a different perspective of Mexican/U.S. relations. South Texas history. The history of this area-we ---- had no ---- to their land. US gained a large area of land to expand the US. Significant contribution to our history.  Please continue to fund. Event helped shape America history. It is important to better understand the History of the creation of our Nation and the relationship we have ----. Foundation of the building of the United States. Marks an important battle significant to the region. Start of Mexican American war. To learn more about the history and land exchanged between Mexico and the US. It is the only park I know that explains the Mexican-American War.  It is especially significant because of the territory the USA gained i.e. California, AZ, NM, etc. Piece of history no one knows about. It is significant in our history."
153,Tonto NM,TONT,"Prehistoric history. The preservation of history and knowledge. The history of the people and their culture. History of the people who lived here.  And plants. Offers good insight to the native people in area. The history of the people and their culture that lived here before we did. History, culture. Native American history. Ancient culture. Cliff dwellers. Historical, natural. It is a well preserved site of our ancient Native American past. Cultural heritage of all inhabitants of AZ. Culture of the Salado is preserved. Educational. History of the Salado, how they managed to survive, way of life, etc.. History, preservation, education. History. Learning about the past and how different cultures and civilizations lived. Historical value of ancestors. The history behind it. Significant. To learn our country's history. Very important learning about the Indians. Remembering our past and for future generations. The Indian dwellings. Original site of ancient people of America. History of Salado people. Cultural heritage of the Native peoples. Fantastic.  The best outdoor experience of my life-our parks are a resource that must be preserved and maintained-keep up the good job. Preserving the Salado heritage. Native history. History. History value. Our history and cultural development. A preserved record of early inhabitants. Historical information. Native inhabitants. State heritage. Dwellings. Maintaining the history and culture of the true American. Knowledge of original in habitants of the region and early dwellings, life. 0 Prehistoric history and evidences of such. I love and greatly appreciate preservation and information concerning the history of our nation, the cultures of the native peoples are woefully under emphasized in relation to European World history. Very pretty!  Well maintained. Important site of early settlement. History-understanding earlier civilizations. It allows us to understand the nature of human origins in our country. Preservation and appreciation. First people's history is American history. Archaeological and botanical value. Always good to preserve history. Early history that is non-European. History. History. Invaluable. Preserve the past. To preserve our history. VERY well keep up-love the trail up to the ruins. Time frame of Native people. Very inspirational. Wonderful historical info. History of native peoples. Historical preservation-very appreciated. Shows ancient history of the area.  Not sure the kids appreciated the valve of the area. Preserving native cultures. Ancient dwellings can't be replaced. Pre European heritage of the country. Oldest national park in America!  Very cool! Historic. To keep the area for ----.  Not ----. Preserves national history. Preserves land for the future, history, culture. Older history; botanical garden. First nations heritage. Ancient ruins-history preservation. Heritage of cliff dwellers. To learn about the history of the land we live in. Preservation of artifacts and knowledge. This is an important site, partly for the native plants, ---- saguaro. The history is now. This is important park of our heritage. Very important to preserve early cultures. The cliff dwelling. Preserving an important part of history. Vegetation and ruins. Beautiful, Native American history. Remembering our beginnings. Cliff dwellings. Historical and cultural value-understanding previous civilizations in our lands. The history of our indigenous peoples. Wonderful ---- and wonderful ----. All TRUE history of this country is significant.  ---- maintenance is excellent. Cliff dwellings. Exactly the above and the overall beauty in the spring season. Exploring the history of past people and how they lived before horses and civilization. History and understanding of our country. History of Arizona, cultural experience. History. History. Learned about Indians (6 yr old), past culture and heritage. Learning history and walking trails. Our heritage is so important. Preservation of historical sites. Preserving original inhabitants way of life. Shows the history of the area. The ruins to lost at cultural history. To learn about the history of this site. Very significant; first trip to Arizona and loved the beauty and history-excellent. View of the lake and all. The mystery of where the Salado went. Ancestors of the nations. Great for the kids to learn about the past. Great to remember and view history. History. History. INDIGENOUS peoples history.  Good to know where people lived. It is so important for people and future generations to know and understand the right of people, and the extent of the human condition. Learn about history of the area. Preserving history. Protect Native American heritage. The ancients were here 1st. The dwellings. The Indian history. The ruin and wildlife preserve.  We took a lot of pictures of the flora. This is a wonderful educational experience about our national history. Time to recognize and preserve a very nice heritage. To preserve this space so we can ---- it. Very important. View is great-the people who lived here had a beautiful home way back then. Preserving ALL of it's culture. Invaluable, unreplaceable tie to history and essential education experience. Important opportunity to learn about past cultures that are integral to the history of this region and to America. Archeological, historical, geological. Historical ruins. Did not know these cliff dwellings existed before today.  Very interesting. Preserve dwellings. Very ---- evolution the original American. Indian history and culture. History. Indian ruins. Snapshot of history. The history of the people and area. Thank you! High. History. It is our undiscovered and often not discussed history. Very significant.  We must maintain as much of our history as possible.  We must understand our history to move forward. Native culture. Continued knowledge of our past. Education on the native Americans from this area. Early culture of Indian/pabla necessary to preserve these sites. History. Important to reserve history. Preserving the ruins of ancient people helps us develop and appreciate our national history. The native American history. Very important for history of this area. Cultural heritage.  The first Americans forget the past-doomed to repeat. Historical significance-a chance to experience what life was like while ruins were in use. History of the original people of this land. History-culture-amazing to see the hand prints in the mud from 700 years ago amazing. I wish I could have seen it in it's original preservation is awesome! Native Am. history. The Indian heritage and culture so prominent in this state. The significance is to teach us about past cultures. To preserve the history of our great nation and it's peoples. Very history and informative. Very important-so neat to be able to ""see and feel"" history. Historical. Very few cliff dwellings in US. To preserve the natural and cultural aspect of Arizona. Important cultural significance. To know about the different tribes and customs. Yes. Cliff dwellings an awesome sight. Learning our heritage. Love the walk up to the caves. Our history. Preservation of national history. The fact your keeping history alive. Very good. Cultural preservation. History. Archeological treasure. It is here to help us remember the native Americans and the impact on our ----. First nations history has been lost through time and it's important to educate everyone on the history of America's first people. The ruins are a great piece of history. Learning of the cultures that preceded ours. French only speak, very nice. Preserves native American culture. The cliff dwelling. Cliff dwelling and then ---- Indians ---- in globe.  Shows what our country was like. National and worldwide knowledge of AZ history. Historical. Saving the areas for all to enjoy! History of human habitation. It relates history/culture of first known inhabitants and effects of them on us and culture on them. Outstanding look at it's real use and history or past of the region. Preserve natural and human history. Very important to share with public all the history. Important for historical aspects. It is nice to know about the natives of Arizona and how they lived and survived. That we do not forget the past and our heritage.  Also shows us how important the land is! The beauty of nature. Documents in a hands on way an ancient culture. History. Awareness of NA prehistoric dwellers! Preservation of history. Window into native history. Historical significance showing the Salado civilization.  Very remarkable. Very! Very important to save the structures. Evidence of the early civilization in Southern Arizona. To remember and respect the different cultures that came before. Just the opportunity to see it. It's just fabulous, evidence different people existing in same environment. Cultural history of ancient people. History of first settlers. Learning about past civilizations and preserving them. It is not replaceable. Defines Native American life in the Southwest. Very important! To learn from the past. Yes. Native culture should always be preserved. How our early humans were able to live and flourish here!  Thank you for providing this for us to share! Archeological historical preservation. Discover how previous society lived. Preserving historical areas. The history. Very nice. Very significant.  Love learning more about native American culture. Very important keep it going for future generations. History. History of past, learning more about vegetation. To be able to see dwellings from before Columbus. 2 persons completing form. American heritage. Excellent high. Heritage of our native peoples and architecture. Historical preservation. History of original people. History. Informative and historic. Such a reminder of the past and it's lessons. To honor and respect the native American's cultures. US history. To give our generation info on past cultures. Ancient peoples culture evidence thanks for leaving out evolution. Appreciation of primitive culture. How amazing our ancestors were. Learning history. Maintaining the history and area. Preserve history. Reminds us how our lives have advanced over the years. These preservations and museums can possible lead to deeper understanding of why people from the ---- came to the America. To preserve the past for the future and to remember where we come from. History of native culture, natural history of desert. History. The native people held views and practices that we MUST learn and make a part of our lives. Saito culture. Ancient history! Historical value unsurpassed. How the cliff dwellers lived. Preservation of Native American heritage. The dwellings-a link to the past-to contemplate and learn from. Very significant. It's really fun! Preservation of natural area. Very significant."
154,Cumberland Island NS,CUIS,"Natural vegetation and animals-the history of early inhabitants of the island. Preserving this barrier islands ecology and human history put that or ---- signage. History of native Americans, Spanish explorers and wealthy families. It's ecological significant. This ---- a beautiful wilderness island that offered ---- the opportunity to wilderness camp on a native island. It is undeveloped and protected natural area-untouched by commercialism. Historical-as well as conservation of a beautiful Island. Unspoiled coastlines and natural beauty of U. S. seashore and environs.  Value of private land becoming public. Recreation. It's history, preservation of the environment. Unique environment and history. As a barrier island that continuously moves, it is important to preserve its state and natural habitat. I don't know. History, location, example of barrier islands before commercial development (dunes). Great-I am glad it has been saved from the bulldozer. Preserving Gas Barrier islands. Natural beauty, beaches, history. The natural beauty, ---- ---- ---- touched by man. History of times past. How ---- it is. Exposure to history and nature. Excellent park!  Love it. The history of the park is significant.  It is also important to keep the park protected to preserve the natural standings. Seeing undisturbed nature in its environment. It's pristine, unspoiled, the prettiest beach I've seen because it's clean, ----. Its disputed history, its uniqueness as a virtually uninhabited open space. I am not sure.  It was never shared with me. African American Settlement?  Undeveloped Barrier Island? History and nature. Eco system; history from the ----; wild life. Island history of ---- and Southern ----. Shows Island like, away from civilization before everything became industrialized.  Florida history is the best history. HISTORY of this Island is fascinating and is well described. Preservation of history and wildlife.  Education of the public. Natural and human history Island of significance. Very highly important. Too maintain ---- natural setting and be aware of the various cultures and groups who were here. Very significant we need to ---- --- and make a valuable to ----. History of families that lived on the Island. Wild life and vegetation. Military value. By-gone era learning op. Saving biological history. History and environment. Wild/wildness protection. Highly significant, unblemished example of Coastal Island. Preservation of a truly natural environment and historic sites. The preservation. It was very important to learn about life in this area in previous centuries. There is so much history ---- with the Island and it should be preserved for future generations. Would be more significant if wilderness road was off limit to public vehicles and tours were eliminated. Natural preservation. It is great that the Park is kept wild with good trails. Marsh land, ----. Undeveloped authentic. Historic, unspoiled nature, breath taking beauty. History and location. It is Eden!  It ----. Southern atmosphere and nature. The location of this Island made it one of the first land ---- by indigenous people and one of the first to be explored by those that came later. The natural beauty preserved in its original State, the history and cultural significance. Timeless aspect. Wish there was stricter enforcement of people approaching ---- collecting things and ----!  But love that you limit number of people. Preserve Sea Island. Helps touch about our history. Nature.  Preserving the ----. It's rich history. ---- Natural shoreline, wild horses and ---- Wildlife, being one of the last undeveloped banner islands. Very few natural islands left-enjoyed the undeveloped natural experience and historical importance. Historic significance of ---- History. Better understanding of the role barrier islands play. Conservation of habitat. History of island.  Preserving wilderness. Wild horses, trails. Human-American Indian-Greene and Carnegie family-natural history-one of few places that is close to native. My family and love Cumberland ----.  My husband and I brought our children, spouses and grandchildren as a ---- Very significant to ---- history. The natural beauty-wildlife is amazing-unspoiled is a plus. Good opportunity to observe nature. An intact Barrier Island and ecosystem.  An extraordinary place. Any natural seashore need to be preserved so it can be enjoyed by future generations. Getting back to nature and seeing the history. Historic.  Beauty. History-barely taught any more. The history of the island. Beautiful natural ---- GA ----.  Live ---- Spanish Moss amazing.  ---- gorgeous.  This needs to be kept for future generations. This is the last wild barrier Island in the Atlantic Coast and as such needs to be protected. Wilderness camping. A natural place for people to relax and see how it used to be. The parks carry on our national heritage, history, and natural beauty. Represents history from Native American, European, early American towns, etc..  It is important we preserve for future generations. There is always a benefit when a person can feel history. The beauty of the outdoors. Natural wildlife. To ---- its natural habitat. Seashore and wildlife preservation. The significance of this park is so we can appreciate the nature's beauty. Importance of protecting the environment and last of our ---- places. Don't know. Gives a wonderful insight into a past era. The preservation of the maritime forest and mother natural areas as well as the preservation of the cultural resources. A guide beach. History of wealthy ---- lives. Preserve our history. Provide a place to relax while learning. Rare beauty/maritime forest and yes must preserve for future generations and wildlife. Seashore Barrier/Carreige History. Unique representation of Florida/Georgia before land development. Cumberland Island's exhibits mentioned the red people, white people and black people who inhabited the island.  That is good. Pristine beach wilderness protected from development.  We have enough Panama cities and Myrtle Beaches. Breathtaking beauty, ---- ----. It is nature unspoiled and that is difficult to find these days. Amazing-so much history and architecture. Nature and horse preservation. Preserving our ecosystem. Its history. Mutli-use should be maintained.  Examples of life back in is heyday, as a working plantation but keep part wilderness. Generosity of Carnegies. Beauty of nature. The beach. The history and educational. History, nature. Presentation of the land, nature, architecture, etc.. History, landscape, eco system. Preserve seashore, peek at past. It protects the island from commercial development. Beautiful place that belongs to all Americans. Wild horses! It's a sacred pristine gem of beauty.  A national treasure. Nature preservation. Historic, maintenance of existing buildings, nature tours and significance to the region. Dungarees ----. Nature conservation; historical preservation. Stunningly original coastal setting NOT affected by commercial businesses or private party. Natural and historical development of SE Georgia.  Eco-systems maintenance. Cultural history and natural significance. Left untouched and a nice retreat from every day stress. We love this park and do NOT want it to become more commercial.  This park is how a nature park should be. Understanding the Gilded Age. Recreational once for rich people of past generations.  Beautiful beach and ruins. Native Americans to colonists to plantations and Civil War.  Most importantly keeping the island undeveloped. Preservation of natural habitat ---- ---- history. Preservation. Environmental and historical. Cumberland represents a unique blend of history, ecology and recreational opportunities.  A real treasure! Keeping wilderness intact. The ----, plantation, Carnegie history. Real family history. Keeping the wildlife safe and free of human influence.  Glad to see it free of trash.  Good to see there is still respect for our wildlife. The wild life habitat is great.  Keeping in line that is a big plus.  Hand clean of trash. Historical and environmental. It's the largest preserved barrier island wilderness on the East Coast. For me-nature, animal habitat and protected historical value of keeping/maintaining property for generations to enjoy. Very significant ---- to industrial revolution.  Good to see ---- of Plum Orchard. I enjoyed learning about the life here.  Ranger info and stories are lacking. Its pristine environment.  The historical input (Carnegie, etc).  Wild horses and ---- wild ----. Maritime forest of Southern variety.  Historical significance of GA Sea Islands in African-American culture. The full history of the island (Indians, Spanish, etc.). To be able to go to a place that can only be reached by boat, someplace that isn't all about buying things, limited amount of people allowed on the island. Southern most unspoiled environment. Learn more about life of one of America's wealthiest family (Carnegie); look at vegetation. Historical preservation.  Also helping Sea Turtles. Maintain history of natural areas and wildlife. Preservation and nature. Very important. YES. Pristine example of the beauty of our great Nation! Preservation of natural resources. Beautiful --- and beach!  Rare, a true treasure! The preservation of the facilities. 0 For our Grandchildren to visit. History, wildlife. The history and culture of our Country. To see how it was used by the people who lived with in area. History and houses and horses. To display the opulent lifestyles of affluent predecessors. Very early settlement-documents history of this Country. Great Park. Preservation of the islands ecosystem. Unique ecosystem with cultural legacy as well. History and nature. Private ownership of Island transit ---- after depression marked ---- in country. Unique coastal island with significant history and beautifully preserved for centuries to come. The vegetation, the trees are amazing.  The beach-isolated and beautiful. Historical and ecological. Important history, conservation, presentation/protection from development. The pristine beach was wonderful. Interesting to see Carnegies ""play ground"". ---- ----. It is well preserved, natural, and not developed. Beauty, ----. History, wildlife, seashore. It is the only place I know of where you can see wild horses on an island.  All around a beautiful place. Preserve southern beauty and history.  God Bless the USA. This is a national treasure!  I am so grateful to the Carnegie family for turning over most of theirs land to the ----. Dungunese, wild horses. To preserve land and the history of the pearl. Unique environments/ecosystems.  Also important historical figures have large connections to this island. I think that --- --- --- all ---- ----, are in all, sparking a love for wildlife and a desire to ----. Historical, natural. Nature. Needs more information.  Historical and beautiful.  Signs are so weathered you can't read them. History of a culture ---- ----.  Beauty of environment and biodiversity.  Proof land can survive man's use. One of the last untouched sea shores on the East Coast. Preservation of our natural habitats and history. Wild horses, man. Historic/cultural ---- ---- ---- preservation is exceptional. Beautiful animals. It was owned by Andrew Carnegie, a steel empire. Preserving nature, history, and security from natural disaster. This was William A. Carnegie's island. A pure ecosystem that is under ---- and preserved to its intended state. It keeps us in the lines at what Teddy Roosevelt wanted with the national park service. Preservation of environment. Unique ecology. ----"
155,Castle Clinton NM,CACL,It's about the born of the nation and his construction. Learning about U.S. history. Represents we protect our country. Fort. 1812
156,Acadia NP,ACAD,"Natural beauty. Top tier outstanding. Beautiful views of Atlantic coast. It's outstanding natural beauty. It's important that our country maintain it's open spaces. It's a great place to preserve the beauty of this country and get away from the masses. The national parks are a gift to our nation. Beauty, recreation for all to enjoy!  And much hard work to maintain. Preservation of national resources, beauty.  Availability to visitors. Very significant-great views and shows beauty of our nation. It exemplifies perfection in nature. Mountains and ocean=beautiful. Nature, beauty, wildlife, preservation, care for the earth, importance, value of HEALTH and taking care of our bodies. Conservation of environmental and cultural heritage. A chance to enjoy nature in its unchanged purity. Preserves national wonder. To preserve the natural beauty and recreational opportunities for everyone to enjoy. Very important to treasure and protect for future visitors. To have fun on vacation and enjoy the use of the park.  We like to bike the trails in search of the famous water truck.  You park it in a different spot each year.  It's fun to find. The prettiest park, natural vistas I've ever visited. The unique biozone of mountains to ocean. Gives a place for people all over to visit and enjoy nature and history. Very important. Beauty. Unique natural environment (North Atlantic coast, with mountains and green space, trails). The greatest spot in the East! Love it. Shows our commitment to the earth and our environment. Representative of the area's natural gifts. Preserves unique coastal landscape and way of life. I have been coming to the part for 40 years but many people ask for directions because number marks are complicated. Incredibly important! Conservation!  Outdoors! 1st National Park East of Mississippi Beauty. Preserves beauty of Maine coast. World class hiking opportunities and carriage trails unrivaled. The preservation and conservation of beautiful Easter coast line. Wilderness camping is our nations link to our history and ourselves.  Personally our yearly visit here allows me to ret. after a year of not so good work like balance. Only park in NE beautiful views and mix of hiking. So much topography in a small area. To show everyone the beauty of Acadia and Maine and to get people to appreciate the outdoors. Preservation of Maine's coastline. That is preserves the natural beauty of Maine's coast. The park offers unique views and trails.  We also had the opportunity to see a porcupine crossing the road. Freedom. The most beautiful corner of the nation. To preserve the natural spaces in US, increase recreational, ---- and spiritual opportunities. To show the East Coast. It's the first and only East Coast national park. It's 100 years old.  It was also the first established national park. History, recreation. Historical value and opportunity to see Maine's beauty. It's an important part of Maine's culture and keeping it natural and beautiful. The national significance is to also recognize that this was once native land-and the need to preserve the land. It's a beautiful spot on the US coast. Great park. Maintaining a natural space. Keeping the beauty of the area preserved for educational and natural opportunities and pursuits. National treasure, preserving nature. Preserves nature which of natural significance to the country. The cultural and natural uniqueness of the island and it's surrounding waters. One of the most famous in US. Protect the beauty of these natural areas. Rugged, undisturbed beauty. Perfect blend of sea, tides and birds.  Enjoyed the night sky. It's an exceptionally beautiful and unique landscape that I hope remains intact for future generations. How beautiful the nature is!  It is a pristine, gorgeous land that deserves to be preserved. It is beautiful and national monument. Such beautiful place belongs to everyone, so everyone can enjoy beautiful nature of ---- Beautiful nature great trails/history. Maintaining the rocky coast of Maine and surrounding scenic areas, trails, etc. The ---- of our nation is indicated in the beauty of this park. Wonderful opportunity to enjoy coastal Maine and Down East. First settlers. Easy access for everyone to enjoy. This national park is a connection between the efforts of private citizens and the government-Rockefeller to present day. Protecting nature's wonder. Provides necessary public outdoor space and activities. To give access to nature to everybody. An opportunity to protect nature and preserve the outdoors for all to enjoy. The beauty of nature. Keeps the sea shore and mountains open to ""we the people"". The history of  establishing Acadia sets an example for philanthropic engagement for everyone. To explore the jewel of the area. Natural beauty. 0 A fantastic, beautiful place to help people appreciate natural beauty while recreating. One of the few East coast National Parks with Ocean and Mountains. The beauty of Maine. It is a family tradition to spend a week here.  It began in the 80's. Preserving the habitats of the Northeast for future generations. Great ---- for generations to come. It is a quiet place for people and animals, an example of the effort we should all make to take care of our planet. Maine culture and Industry. Preserving a natural state for all to enjoy. Every preserved nature area has national significance by virtue of it's very existence. Gorgeous scenery and wonderful hiking opportunities. It is a gem and we will always come here.  It preserves what our nation started with, looked like and should always be preserved. Natural resources-ability of people to get out and enjoy how most of Maine used to be. Since it's the closest to huge population of people, it's the most important national park.  HIGHEST priority. To preserve this unique land. That it is preserved for all people. Historic value and unique beauty, no landscape quite like it. All views. Beauty and uniqueness of natural site. Very important and enjoyable. The natural resources-fantastic, ----, mountains, etc.  Cultural-generations of native Americans, ---- etc. It allows many people to enjoy it's beauty and significance. Beauty of park and ocean. Teaches that ---- of parks and beauty need to be preserved. Outdoor beauty of the US and a place to be active. Protect for future generations.  Socioeconomic ---- to keep it accessible. The Eastern U.S. was beautiful lands.  It's not only the West. For everyone to use and share. Coastal beauty and fauna/plants. No opinion on this issue. Exploring nature. Great need. Preserving a natural wonder. The natural beauty and buffer area between inhabitant areas and the ocean. Important to emphasize the beauty of U.S.A. Beauty, rich history-if researched. Wonderful! Beauty of the park. Easily accessible to families. Economy of Maine. Landscape, wildlife, nature preservation. Great place for varied experiences. Roosevelt, ----, history. Allowing people to see nature undisturbed. It holds the tallest mountain in the east, so it is important that US citizens have access. Natural ---- to preserve gorgeous scenery. Nice to have national park in Northeast. It provides a retreat in nature with preserved vegetation and animal life. Preserving the wild life and beauty of Acadia is a vision kept alive from the times of Theodore Roosevelt. Reserved/protected space for people to enjoy. We have not been here long enough to give a definite answer, but is definitely one of the most beautiful parks on the East coast. Preservation of natural wonder for all and future. Pristine natural beauty. Rated overall best park in USA for a reason.  I've been to most-yes, most.  This rates my best. Preserve nature. All national parks are significant to the beauty of their country. East Coast version of Utah Rockies, great trip great opportunities for outdoor fun. Because we need to protect and preserve such beautiful places, please no commercial signs. A treasure for all Americans. It represents Maine nature and beauty in it's purist manner. Brings foreign tourists.  Also wonderful way to spend vacation. It is a gem and a national treasure.  So beautifully maintained and so gorgeous to have LOVED every single hike here and hope to come again. Very high. Very beautiful area. It is unique, beautiful. It was set aside for people to enjoy. Beauty!  Conservation. Preservation of land. Critical.  It must be preserved. Preserving natural beauty of Acadia for future generations. Very important in preserving nature areas for visitors. Great way to experience our Nation! I don't know!  Do I fail the quiz?  It is on the quarters. Highlights and preserve America's natural beauty. Really rich Robber Barons needed-tax break and, ----, we all benefit from this flintiness. Of utmost significance. One of the first National Parks in the Country-also, what amazing trail work! Oceans rule-unique island mixed with Mts. Preserving our natural land. Natural beauty. Scenery, history.  Park is unique. I'm not a National so can not comment. The different climates and environments all bundled in one Park. The continued preservation of this beautiful area and the wildlife in it. It's protecting nature as well as presenting accessible nature for all lots of people. Pretty significant. Conservation of our land resources, and beauty are all important to the Nation. A scenic landscape that should be preserved as natural as possible for public enjoyment and inspiration. Aesthetics-inspiration.  Biology.  History.  Geology. The protection of nature itself.  The boardwalk on Jesop Path is beautiful and gives plenty of chances to see some animals. Very important. Preservation of environment, historical significance of pre-WWII established Park and Native American education. Preservation of the Northeastern landscape. Ocean and mountains together, the preservation of older historic buildings. French Explorers (who eventually founded Detroit and NOLA).  Eco system of down east. To preserve and protect our recreational resources for future generations. Mountains and Sea combination. It is critical we maintain special places where humans can interact with nature, as undisturbed as possible. It's unique surroundings. Conservation, education and leisure. To preserve nature and historical areas. Keeping a large area for nature and preservation. It preserves the beauty of the Maine Coast and the Native American culture. Keeping the ability for people to learn about out history and natural resources, especially with changes due to climate.  The educational opportunities are very good. (1) Recreation.  (2) Preservation. Conservation. Conservation.  Enjoying nature.  Maintaining health and well being. To preserve a piece of Maine's natural beauty. To show the importance of saving our environment. First Eastern Park! The natural beauty! Rugged coastline, natural beauty, relaxing feel, unplugged from busy lives. Beauty. Beautiful place. To enjoy our heritage, nature, relax.  We enjoy freedom to have/maintain such beauty, a privilege. Very important, critical to our national identity. First national park in the East. Pride of USA. Important for the preservation of natural spaces on the East coast. Preserving the sea shore and nearby environment is very important.  I love racoon's! Appreciate outdoors, wildlife, nature. Very important natural resource. One of our countries most quintessential places for natural beauty, social history, accessibility. Combination of natural, historic phenomena, mountains, forests, sea, ----. Freedom. Marine and geological presentation. Preserving history and nature. Get out to see, experience USA natural beauty. Gorgeous testament to nature, and value of public/private ----. We live on the Island and love the park and all the business it brings to the island. Natural resources, beauty. It is great that it is open and available to all.  We love to meet people from all over the country. Very good! A national treasure!  An important part of the NP system as a whole. National treasure because of the sights. To get Americans to see the natural beauty of their country, and to provide a great escape. Lets us see unreal nature. Inestimable! Unique natural resources, things to see. Parking-Zion system is best. Excellent park!  Great nature opportunity for all ages. Very much so. Beautiful area that needs protection.  The park is an amazing and breathtaking view all around. Great for clean, healthy environment. Very significant!  Great value and trails-unique features. National parks are part of our heritage.  Their beauty is extraordinary. Its beauty alone justifies its existence.  Don't know enough about the history to comment further. One of the first in nation. Preserve nature. Exceptional natural landscape worthy of preservation. Nature conservation. Beauty and clean water-so many trails. Beauty of the Maine. Eastern ocean environment worth retaining for all of us! Rockefeller/Carnegie families turned over to government. East Coast accessibility and the beauty! Beautiful.  Nature is extremely valuable.  Scenery, educational opportunities. National treasure. A stunning piece of land that has both wilderness and coastline. Beautiful scenery and wildlife. History and nature. Natural beauty.  Well maintained. Seeing the landscape before it was developed. Significant examples of northeastern forest and seashore as well as life in down-east Maine. We read about the petition to the White House when it was gifted.  Total love of country. So sweet climbing and easy accessible hiking. Excellent East Coast learning opportunity. Great East Coast NP. The beauty of the ocean and mountains, carriage roads and bike trails and hike trails.  Lakes for swimming. Only national park in New England in our area. Preserve the beauty of the coast, educate about the history of Mount Desert. To showcase natural beauty of the Nation!  I told some friends who live in other countries and they were jealous that USA had National Parks to begin with. Unique beauty of the island-mountains, ocean, lakes, carriage paths.  Every one should have the chance to appreciate its unique beauty. Historical and preservation of land. Acadia NP preserves the variety of habitats for animals and nature on the coast. It's a wonderful place to experience nature. The preservation of much of the island by Rockefeller. What a wonderful preservation of such a nice nature resource. Accessible and beautiful land forever conserved for the enjoyment of all. Huge! National seashore. Beauty and naturalness i.e. animals in wild. Pristine America at it's finest, for ALL to enjoy. Extra ordinary landscape should be preserved for future generations. Necessary and important. Treasure to be enjoyed. Nature, wild life, environment. A beautiful park.  We always enjoy spending time here. Nature composition. Educating people of outdoors activities and preserving natural resources.  Spending time with family and friends. Beauty, hiking, nature. It's proximity and unique ---- to the Atlantic ocean.  It's well preserved old ----, and unique trail system and ----. Pristine environment. Nature. Cadillac Mountain. The nature, truly the nature. Everyone needs to promote conservation-for everyone's future ability to experience nature. The wealthy folks who donated this treasure for the rest of us to enjoy can not be understated or under appreciated. Awesomeness. Mountain trails by the ocean. History of Acadia illustrates early stages of national park system and importance of public philanthropy (would be nice revive). Awesome coastline, pristine forests. The parks are very important part of our national indemnity. A place to reflect an our nation's beauty!  a haven, a retreat. Preservation of wild lands. Preserving the natural beauty of such a gorgeous park. All of our national parks are a great asset, and this the most beautiful.  ---- ----. I'm not sure. The natural beauty and the efforts clearly to preserve what is here. I'm from the Netherlands, I can't answer this one. This park is a great example of the life and culture of Maine and New England.  The rocks/sights to see are not like anything else I have ever seen!  I love this park!"
157,Ocmulgee NM,OCMU,"The Park preserves:  the land of the Indians for future generations to enjoy and educate the public about Indian culture. Only certain tribes used mounds.  It is important to preserve those that remain. Muscogie Creek history, mounds, council house, wet lands. Thousands of years of native American history and artifacts. 17,000 years of continuous human habitation. Any saved history is available thing. Preservation of the Indian mounds.  History of the tribe which lived in this specific region. The park honors the Native American Indians heritage.  That is important because they were forced off their land and many are not in existence. Indian history and culture. Outstanding group of Native American Mounds.  Excellent video in theatre. The history of mankind in North America. Gives others the opportunities to learn about a different culture, it was super neat! Preservation of Native peoples heritage.  Park has immense sacred significance.  Park has a wide and varied plant and animal life and is a refuge. Preservation of native culture.  Preservation of wild life and wild life habitat. Understanding the first people and what they did and how we have destroyed it. Historically this is one of the most important Parks in the middle Georgia area. The mounds and the earth lodge. To show how people before our time lived. Great place for the family to come and enjoy nature. Home of the Creeks. Had us a great hike, it was flooded so we couldn't hike in more areas. It is good to know the heritage of our Country and remember the Natives and the sacrifices that were made. Knowing the history of places and people is very important.  This Park allows the history and culture to remain for all visitors. The oldest house. The history of the Native Americans in the area. To see history. Preserves the history of Native Americans. Very important. To see history. It is part of our history and should not forget those who were before us. Remembering the history of people before us and enjoy nature. The preservation of the Native Americans who were here before us. To honor and educate the public about the first inhabitants and settlers of the Macon Area. To learn about tradition and history. To show how they lived and made a living from their surroundings. Very good. Very good. Preserving history. It's an awesome place to bring the family and enjoy the sights. Native American culture needs to be honored and preserved. Preserving pre-national history. Indian history. History and culture. Maintain history of our native people and their culture. Preservation and education of local Native American tribes. Preserve the past for the future. The history of native Americans. The Indian Heritage found here. Culture. History (preservation) of the peoples of the land BEFORE current era. It teaches people the way of our ancestors. Live to come here. The history. To remember the creek people and know where they came from and their history. High. Good to increase information on American Indian population in our country. It is highly historical and makes us greatly appreciate what and who came before us. The history of the culture and area before the Europeans came. Very impressive monument and history.  I learned so much about ---- history of the region! The park traces and details past cultures and preserves a way of life that is ancestral and influential. To help us understand the Mississippian Indians and their culture. It is important for our citizens to learn about the first Americans and their lifestyles. Beautiful setting and ---- Show the history and culture of Mississippian people and Indian people. Preserve history. Proof of ancient history you can touch and feel. Accurate and NOT Biblical. To preserve the history and heritage of the area. Those coming behind us should know what came before to honor and preserve it. I feel that any and every historical site needs more attention by the public. Without knowing where we've been how can we know where we are to go. Traditions should be celebrated and shared. The history in interesting. Archeology of Seus; origins and history of creek ---- early Anglo Creek trade. Captures the history of people who came before us and from whom ---- Important history of America. It is significant because of the history within the area. Nature and history. Preservation of our national history. It is very important to the history of this country, state, and the native people of this country. It is important to acknowledge, and educate about, America's first people! Awesome, ----.  Love this place. Cultural. Early Native Americans lived here.  This ties into the earliest human history in the USA. Indian history. It's very important for future generations to understand our past. Preserving history for the future generations. History, Native American heritage, geology, geography. Indian culture. It links the Native American history. Keeping ancient history alive and relevant. Native American history. Preserving history. Teaching today's generation of the past. To remember the terrible ---- inflicted on one was given by ---- to highlight the importance of treating our ----, ---- they are. History. The historic value is awesome.  I plan to go to other National Monuments now.  Didn't know this was even there! Education."
158,Fort Smith NHS,FOSM,"Loved all the history and learning about the U.S. Marshal's Dept.  So interesting. In a hurry but awesome! Great for young people to learn history. Highlighting at the history of the growth of our nation. Grill of tears. Remembering our painful history to avoid repeating it. Great lesson as a part of history that we need to know and be reminded of. Keep history alive. Very significant, history of Fort Smith is both fascinating and interesting. The Court that dealt with crimes and Indian Territory in Mid-1800's. Pretty important to the region. To help us learn more about our history and bring it to life. To tell the younger generations what really happened so history isn't erased, distorted or rewritten. It's history. Very good. The history is amazing and I'm so glad it's being preserved!  Loved the visit-and my 9-year-old loved the Jr. Ranger book! Historical remembrance. 0 Giving voice to those that have been ---- and made a difference. Very important history. It is very significant to educate especially about the Native American History. Extremely significant-very informative info about our Westward Expansion-covers a lot of areas. Convey information about significant period(s) in U.S. history; opportunity to experience same; validate (or not) info from Media (books, movies, etc.) History of Law and Order in W. Arkansas, as a Retired Deputy U.S. Marshall I found it extremely relevant and significant. It educates public of true value and meaning of Indian Culture in U.S. History. It was very helpful as a support and source of info. Native American History.  Legal History. Teaching about the history. The history here is significant and is not taught in schools any more. A treasure. Explains the Western expansion and plight of Indians on Trail of Tears. History great. History of our Nation's growth. History of our Nation. HISTORY! Keep up the great work. Learn the history of Ft. Smith. Preserving the history of this area. To bring law and order to the area. Very informative and history made so interesting!  My Grandson loved to come! Very significant in the protection of the Western Border of the U.S. Nation's background. True gateway to the west. This establishment signifies the importance of ---- ---- during the cafe 1800's.  He was very important in upholding the law in ---- a ---- ----. Civil War, Indian, and ---- history. Historical significance of west expansion and Indian relations. Thank you! Learning history-""graphically""-using many senses. 0 For people to learn about this history of Fort Smith. Plays a huge role in learning about our heritage. Preserves AR natural beauty. Very important and part of our nations history. This is a wonderful opportunity to see an experience our national history.  Excellent use of artifacts to interest the public. You can learn a lot about history. Preserves and teaches history to current and future generations. Very nice.  Enjoyed everything. Enlightens people to everything about the old west and the Indian ----. Keeping history alive and preserved. Historical as Fort and justice for Western art and Indian territory. History. Reflects the shifting attitudes about native Americans and about ---- to criminal activities.  Very well documented. Important slice of history. Very historical and knowledge for the young. Before visiting I had no idea that this area had such significant historical importance.  My family learned a lot.  Thanks! Having history available about the state is great. Very important the wealth of knowledge presented is ----. History of our nation is important to preserve!! It gives a much better perspective of the Indian territory. Very SIGNIFICANT with westward experience and the Indian territory. Western history-Indian territory history. Natives. That it was the gateway to the wild west and very significant to have relocation.  Appreciate honesty ----. History. It establishes the history of Fort Smith. It is touching and interesting to learn and see about how Fort Smith began. To preserve history. Reminding us of our 19th century history. Lots of interesting history. The historical aspect. Significant to history of law in the West and the Native American history. Very significant especially to the Ark/OK area. History and native American culture. U.S. history-good and bad. Early Fort on major river, fort during war between the states, used by Judge Isaac Parker for Indian Territories. To explain the history of the Indian territory and the lawlessness that resulted in the forced migration of Indian tribes (failed govt. policy.) History. History of Ft. Smith-Judge Parker. Beginning of Fort Smith. Yes. The river front is a great view.  Love the Fort ruins. Critical to know our history, and the events that happened here were significant in multiple ways. Gave me a good history lesson on the Wild West and what it took to reign it in. History-what's a country without its history? Having a whole bunch of cool fun facts. Our history is who we are.  Generations to come need to know about the past. My wife's 2nd grandfather was a surgeon temporarily stationed here during Civil War time period. To retain the history. Documenting history for all to ----. Education.  Introducing the reality of the frontier and Indian territory settlement. High. It is so important to understand the evolution of violence of the unstructured and the humanity of those with a strong code/values system. The learning of our history of Indians.  Just the history of the people before us. This park is very significant to our nation; to tell the story of hanging Judge Parker and the history of the Tribal Nations at that time is great for us all! To teach others about the history. Western expansion landmark. Yes. A ---- location in the most ---- moments in our nations history. Agree. Extremely. Fort Smith, trail of Texas, Gallons of ---- Parker. Gateway to the West. End of trail of ---- Great chance to learn about our nations history. Great park. Historical documentation. Historical events,, places, etc.  Very significant. Historical preservation and education. History of U.S. and native Indian tribes. History. History... significance to the nation, very important.  More people need to learn it. Most famous judge in U.S. history. Very significant especially to Westerners. We as Americans HAVE to keep places like these to remember our National historic heritage-it's our roots. The march of European Americans across the Continent and the devastating effects that resulted. History of the West; conflict; plight of the various Indian Nations. U.S. Marshals. It brought law and order-tried to aid Indians forcefully removed from their lands. A Fort to establish protection. This Park promotes education and understanding of people, and an idea of our past. This started what we know in the West.. Because it is important history that shouldn't be forgotten. History-people don't know it! It is a great example of Western Expansion and Indian Territory. It preserves our history. Peace keeping. Understanding the ""trials"" and difficulties of building America (especially related to groups of people) and the evolution of Justice System. Yes, I loved the stories. History. I was surprised to find its significance. Educational value of our U.S. History-Staff was very informative and polite. Historical information. History-was wonderful. Info on history of State. Major. May have kept less Indians from dying and more law breakers at bay. Preserving our National history for our children. Teaching about what happened at the Trail of Tears. Very significant-this was the start of the West. All very good! History must NOT repeat itself. Information. More-both Law Enforcement and Indian Relations. Very awesome! Yes.  (4 people.) Very nice, very clean. To tell the story of the history on how it impacted our lives. Native American territory, civil war, development of west. The unjust taking of land from American Indian, also the capture of criminals and ---- law to this lawless part of America. Yes. Opened my eyes to just how terribly we treated the Native Americans/surprised at wide-ranging lawlessness. An important part of history. It's important to remember the past and learn from it to shape the future. Education on Law and Trail of Tears.  Great Job! Obviously important as a Military and Judicial Site in the Historical Westward Movement. The significance can never be put into words.  We have lost too much of our history.  This is a joy to be able to visit and see. History-people need to know history! It keeps American history alive. It was a part of Western expansion. Territory dispute between Native Indians and writes. It documents the importance of these lands to indigenous Americans and is a very important part of your history. Provides history knowledge. Information re, the history of the area.  Being from CA, found it very informative. History-always valuable to know where we've been. It's educational and information, interesting for all ages. Very important to learn about the Trail of Tears. VERY informative, historical-and interesting. Great-very informative.  I learned a lot that I, a teacher, didn't know. Learning about beginning of our justice in cultivating the West.  As well as Indian culture. Preserves an important and historical fort on the American frontier. White/tribal relations, Trail of Tears opening the West, outlaw history, culture. To keep history alive.  To separate fact from fiction. The story of the ---- in the U.S. and the value of it Smith in the building of the State of ----."
159,White House,WHHO,"White House. The White House...speaks for itself! Belongs to the people. Celebrating the ""people's house"". It's a wonderful way to experience the white house if you can't go inside. The White House visitor center was an excellent opportunity/alternative for us since we did not make reservations 6 months prior to our visit! Home of our government. It represents the home of our President. An employee was smoking outside the building regardless of a sign posted. Amazing history! Visiting the park helps people to understand the significance of our government and history as well as those we serve. Very important. It was great to see pieces of history from the White House and learn more about it and its former residents. Excellent background on the families of the White House. Extremely important historical significance, the house of the President. This pertains to White House tour. Very significant to our Nation's history (White House Info Center). The space created for everyone to enjoy greenery and OPEN SPACE."
160,Apostle Islands NL,APIS,"It's location on Lake Superior. Protect the Lake Superior shore line. It sits on the largest fresh water lake in the world and one of the most beautiful places in the US. To keep pristine environment as if for all generations to come. Preservation of unique eco system in the great lakes. Preserved this beautiful area from private home development which would surely have occurred. Unique and beautiful environment, historical value as a former quarry.  A gem among National Parks. Back in the day it was need to get Merchant Ship to places they needed to be. The geological history is important and unique, light house history also an important bygone era. Helped develop our country.  Without it we would not have advanced. The lakeshore is beautiful and it's uniqueness should be preserved. Meyers Beach 8/11/16.  Ranger great, helpful. Preserving environment for future generations. Preserve it! Unspoiled nature.  Ecological study.  Wonderful use of my tax dollars. Beauty of nature and its presentation from development. Very significant. A beautiful place to kayak! Beauty, education, scenery, remains undeveloped yet accessible to enjoy the beach. National parks are very important to us. It is to experience the geology of the area in a human powered recreational way where you are physically challenged and can make decisions of consequence. It is nice to have something for all citizens to enjoy. The caves. Beautiful and must be protected and preserved. Sea caves. Preserving the natural features of the area for multiple generations. LAKE SUPERIOR. Significant. Very significant-landscape is unique!  Human history, geology par park is rare and unique to Great Lakes region. Our parks are the symbol of this nation's diversity and should ALWAYS be protected and maintained. Its natural beauty, sightseeing and the landmarks. Very significant-unique landscape and bald eagles. Unique shoreline/wilderness. The sea caves were beautiful. Conservation and natural sightseeing opportunities. Great place to kayak. Educational, history, understanding of park service. Educational, well ----. Lake Superior is largest fresh water lake in North America, Apostle Islands one of its most unique elements. The unique feature of having 23 islands located so close together ---- ---- land.  The ---- ---- and ---- features are outstanding. Great history ---- ----. This park brings items ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. History. Boundary between USA and Canton. Cultural preservation. Great island chair, ---- light houses. A very unique area with beautiful rock formations.  Very under the ----. Unique freshwater shore lines. Unique scenic beauty!  With limited access (boats no cars) great get away destination. Wilderness close to La Point; very well cared for all types of visitors. History beauty love the CROQUET! The beauty of being an a special island apart of a unique history from long ago. The light house ----. The natural landscapes are breathtaking and significant. To learn it's history and how it has served the public. An irreplaceable bit of history-a revelation, I would guess, to those unfamiliar with Shipping ----, 19th C. way of life. Islands, nature, Lighthouses, super Kayaking. ---- ----. It's more locally significant jobs-Nationally-attractive. Beauty ----. As wilderness decreases, areas like the Parks Service become more and more important.  Also the unique area. Being able to view nature in all its glory plus recent human use. A chance for my children to see nature up close and to see why conservation is important. Historical in that it preserves ---- lighthouses that were important to lumbering- ---- also preserving L. Superior Islands in a ---- ----. The overall beauty. Historical reference of the period. Love this area! Government involvement in Shipping Safety. Have not been here for ---- ----.  Truly fun again.  Jim Stowell was great. Commerce-Shipping. History of Commerce ---- ----.  Nice to have knowledge of lighthouses. History of area and ----. The Lighthouse. The Lighthouse. Its beauty. The best sailing destination on Lake Superior. Beautiful ----. To preserve our history and nature.  Jim was fantastic! To enjoy-to learn the history. Immeasurable to wilderness. People ---- ----.  Well maintained. The unique history of the Ojibwa and later people as well as the unique Apostle Island geologic features. Trade ---- ----. Undisturbed Forest.  Lighthouse.  Fog Whistle. Ability to see and explore sea caves. This park is a national treasure and should be preserved for all to enjoy.  Doing so should remain of the utmost significance. Protects beautiful water, enjoy kayaking. The beauty of Lake Superior and the islands is unparalleled.  The history of this area is a treasure and should be preserved. The importance of the lighthouse to commercial and pleasure craft for 150 years. Wilderness area. Nature education ---- education. Safety. Education. Great. It is a significant piece of history.  Without it that would be lost forever. Been visiting every year and bring friends while sailing, best guide I've ever listened to! Lighthouses MHPE National shipping and trade possible! Tour guide did a ---- job, was very passionate and knowledgeable. Sea caves. Keeping our parks beautiful. People need outdoor spaces/sea caves and nautical history. Preserves nature for future generations and protects the earth. A park for boaters. Lake Superior. Natural beauty preserved peace and quiet. Camping out in nature and a chance to see a bear. Preservation of islands on Lake Superior. Awesomeness. Native forests, native Americans, lighthouses, Lake Superior. Rich man's park. Tour guide was great, friendly and informative, my grand kids and I really enjoyed the whole island. Natural beauty. Educational for everyone. Could not get out to see any lighthouses wrong day. I do not know.  No reasonal opportunities to travel to the islands.  Wrong day, high cost for family of 4. It could be-and was-an excellent national park.  Maintenance and use in some areas is bad and potentially dangerous. Excellent history of Lake Superior and the beautiful Apostle Islands. Pristine wilderness and interesting history! Didn't see much, but ----. Sea Caves-geology. Sea Caves-geology. Economy of fishing. It is a beautiful and pristine place.  One of few left in the nation. Beautiful! Need more activities for children. Volunteers were great. Historical area. History and wilderness. To protect wilderness areas, educate the public of the history of the islands. Lake Superior. History of area. Ecology and history. Natural uniqueness.  Solitude.  Historic uniqueness. This pristine piece of paradise is not only deserving of ---- but for future generations a must do. To preserve the beautiful shoreline and wilderness around an area of Lake Superior so that it is preserved in its natural beauty for all to enjoy. Water. Lake Superior. Great Lakes history. Lake Superior. Not really sure! Historical value. Native cultures and fishing. Value of unique natural place(s). Not enough info online about distances, how to get campsites. Beauty of nature. On a scale from 1 to 10 with 10 as highest, the national significance is 10. Largest of the great lakes, second only to Lake Bickeal in Russia for quantity of fresh water.  Memorial to Gaylord Nelson and Earth Day. Valuable wilderness for species biodiversity.  Economic development for a depressed region. The unique landscape and beauty that draw people from all over the nation. To have a large area on the largest fresh water ---- the would designated as National Park is fabulous all citizens can enjoy this paradise."
161,Chiricahua NM,CHIR,"Geologic formations and Arizona history. These are sacred Apache lands and refugees, valuable enough to spill blood over, which makes this sky island even more sacred.  Beauty is in the ---- of ---- and geology. The unusual rocks here, the geological diversity and historical site near by and here in the monument. The scenery ----, etc. Indian story, national history. Unique nature and history to Region. The unique habitats and natural features. To show how earth changes over time.  To inspire with beauty.  To instruct about different forces that make changes. Chiricahua has a blend of natural history, archaeology and natural beauty with outdoor exploration ---- ----. Unique geology and wide range of Eco Systems in small area which represents SW U.S. well. I am not U.S. citizen.  It's difficult for me to have an opinion on this point. Preserve natural beauty for future generations-and for wild life. Unique beauty!  Beautiful hiking needs protected! A jewel! Hiking among the Pipe Organ rocks. Beautiful rock formations. A visit to the great Southwest tradition and feeling that Native Americans could still dwell here!  A great freedom Highly important. Very unique scenery and Indian information. Preservation of the area. The rock formations and the history of the Apaches who roamed these mountains.  The quiet solitude. Historical and geological significance combine to make this Park a National Treasure. Natural wonders of the rock formations.  Wilderness experience, quiet, effects of erosion.  Awesome feeling to be there. Geological significance!  Also, must have huge significance to Native Americans but no info in the Park about that. Natural beauty, unique geological formations. That we ALL REMEMBER OUR PAST. It is at the cross roads of different environmental ----.  Most people would never learn about the two deserts. Eco Systems not seen in other parts of U.S.-history of CCC. It's a beautiful and unique home to wild life and a great place to explore.  Please keep it preserved! It is of significance to humanity and goes beyond National interests.  Good job!  We need to keep the link to our roots which is nature. The Park provides preservation of AZ natural beauty and does a good job of preserving wild life and their environments. 0 All I can say is ""WOW""!  Beautiful.  Thank you. Amazing history of Swedish immigrants and descendents who lived there-and incredible, undeveloped wild expanses that are probably similar to those times. Historical preservation, nature of history come together.  Our girls can be with nature.  They loved it! It is important to pass on to future generations a love of the  natural beauty of the land. Remembering Chiricahua heritage.  Rocks changes. This history ---- unique rock formations. To remind us of our origins and how important Native Americans are to our culture. Awesome rock formations, wildlife, culture, history, beautiful views. Spectacular geology and migratory Bird Refuge. Represents landscapes changing and evolving over time and the wildlife the land supports.  Currently, ""big rocks"". We are foreigners. Remember the Chiricahua and their sacrifices. The Rhyolite Hoodoos and spires plus the solitude. This park pays tribute to the Native Americans who fought for their land as well as the settlers and soldiers who make their lives here. The park is so unique; all the beautiful rock formations and early American History. Such a beautiful place to visit. 1. Enjoyed the rock formations.  2. Various diversity of birds and plants. Its remoteness and the fantastic rock formations.  Plus, the overall environment is unexpected in Arizona. 1. The history of the Chiricahua Apache.  Various Apache tribes are alive and well across the West.  2. It's so distinctive, when you come here to see it, you feel it. This park is very beautiful and well kept up! Preservation of natural formations and to provide outdoor recreational opportunities. Keeping the past efforts of others-to bring to future generations and CCC efforts. A treasure.  Great hiking. I think all national parks are significant!!! Give all people the opportunity to access the national wonder of the unique landscape features. The opportunity to escape into the wild and meet like minded folks along the way."
162,Channel Islands NP,CHIS,"Marine life, plants, animals protection. Preservation. Educate and appreciate beauty of our land located near ocean. Solitude from real world. Location, wildlife, location. It's a close up look at the geography and variety of sea life.  The kids are loving it. The Channel Islands and natural vegetables. Great information in movie and displays. Wildlife contributions, understanding history of local environment. Very educational for our younger generations. It is very significant. Bridges knowledge and understanding of the islands, even for those unable to make it out to them. The islands are fantastic for ---- wildlife. Very important. To protect marine wildlife. The rich history it exhibited and the display of wildlife. The Channel Islands are a natural treasure right here in our backyard.  Unique ecosystem w/plants and animals found nowhere else. It teaches the importance of saving our sea life. I feel this visitor center was very informative about the wildlife of the area. I scuba dive the Channel Islands; the park info ctr is very informative. Preserves biologic, geologic and human history of the Channel Islands. Teaches people about the importance of preserving our oceans and islands. Influence of marine life on our culture's economy. It should be very significant.  We have to protect plants and animals. Preservation and education. The understand of the importance of are coast and its living organisms. The Channel Islands are a treasure that should be protected and preserved for our children and our children's children. Maintaining the natural wildlife of the park and providing services to human beings. Channel Islands and how they should be preserved. To educate about the history of the Channel Islands and the ecosystem and importance of preserving the wildlife and natural state. Cultural history. To encourage people to go to the outdoors/islands. Sea life, historical. The preservation of the islands and the surrounding ocean habitats.  Beautiful and amazing. Environmental awareness of the islands and surrounding ocean. The history of the park. To see the land in its natural habitat. It's very cute. Marine sanctuary, education, protection of unique species. This park protects many different eco systems bot terrestrial and marine.  It is very important to protect the habitats for animals and plants to survive. It is the pure, uncompromised natural beauty.  The unique wildlife.  And yes, even the fragments reminding us of its natural history. Unique ecosystem, unique flara and fauna that deserved to be conserved and protected.  Great example of conservation and restoration-islund fox! Unique island and wildlife, sensitive breeding ground for mainly birds-it has to be protected! Unique geology and ----.  Relative ---- and lack of popular/low visitation. Very important educationally for Southern Cal communities. Endemic species, unique environment. Preservation and public access. Preservation of ocean life. This was our first visit, we learned a lot and had a great time. This is a great introduction to the California coast and the chamme Islands. Great educational value much needed preservation! To help us learn and protect the beauty of ocean creatures and to learn facts about them. It is a ---- unlike anything else in our nation with ---- ---- ---- and history. Very accessible, displays very good; children seem to really enjoy the tower and watching the fish/animals in the aquarium. Island eco system, unique. Helps inform people of the natural environment and it's importance. It shows life in the ocean that most of us never see and explains how important it is to protect these habitats. Appreciation of natural beauty. High. Showing our visitors about our local. Educational. Getting to learn thing that I never heard about. It is available to everyone to learn about the islands off our shore line.  A lot of people do not even know they are out there!! Protection, preservation, education, and recreational opportunities of our unique marine environment. Wild life/nature conservation and cultural education. Not sure. Explore uncommercialized channel islands. This park is unique and features land and ocean preserves. Preservation of Native American history. ---- Historic value. Informative. Maintain a population specific to this area alone. Excellent out of the best. It's a forerunner of species restoration good education of history-geological and cultural. I love it. The western most oceanic park. The biological preserve helps us see what the land was like. Definitely educating public to indigenous species and material beauty of area. Excellent value ---- and historically. Education and preserving our national resources and wildlife. It's a great way to learn about the natural inhabitants and some of the history of Channel Islands. The natural history of the park is a ---- part of our cultural heritage. Introduces marine life and beauty."
163,Klondike Gold Rush NHP,KLGO,"Located in Skagway AK-this ""park"" is a historical tour and ---- ranger.  Bill was well versed in the facts about Skagway's Gold Rush! Protection of natural history. History and conservation. 0 Preserving history for future generations. Sara Newman at Skagway was great. History. History. Education and inspiration about and from culture and nature. The history and the renovation and preservation of that history. To teach visitors about the Alaska Gold Rush. Good keep the history known. Family significance-Gold rush family. How knowledgeable staff was. A very interesting history lesson.  Fun to hear about. Gold rush. The Klondike Gold Rush is an important part of history. History of citizens in ----. Great piece of Klondike hiking places, beautiful setting. Part of Alaskan and U.S. history. The Gold Rush, ---- ----, massive migration. To preserve Klondike Gold Rush history! Retaining the history of ----. Historical and scenic wilderness. Without the Gold Rush and expansion, Alaska is not significant to U.S. history. Yes! History and knowledge. Good for preserve natural sites. A small important piece of history. The Gold Rush was a huge part of American History, and Skagway's School is a shining example of good education. Major historical landmark well preserved. Interesting-didn't know its significance. To retain the history and educate visitors. Helps us remember the past and how it influences the present, and likely will help form the future. Great!  Nate did a great job! It gives a clear insight into the history and characters of Skagway, particularly during Gold Rush years. Klondike. Local history and founding of Skagway. The expansion of the U.S.-really fascinating! The Gold Rush. Historical. To preserve the Klondike Gold Rush Story. To preserve the past. History of early Alaska and Gold Rush.  History of our nation. The National significance of the park is to preserve our history  and nature and allow multiple generations of Americans (etc.) to enjoy nature and history. Historical information. Historical significance. Preserving the buildings that were the heart of the Gateway to the Klondike, context to history. To preserve it's history of the Gold Rush era. Part of history. It's part of our U.S. history and the details are well outlined around town. History of Klondike ---- ----. Learning how Alaska started. Historic town and buildings, our countries history. Good for all ages.  History and continuance of recognition of founders. Historical. It helps educate visitors about a piece of history they otherwise wouldn't know. To pay tribute to gold rush era and the founders of the railway. Historical significance-Gold Rush. A place one does not think much about the history of important and keep history alive. Frontier history. National historical significance in my life time. Preserving a very interesting part of the nation's history. To know more about the past of Gold rush. Important to show and tell about the history of the North and Canada/USA links. Informative about the Gold Rush in the late 1800's. It is part of US park system. Good ranger programs. Growth of the nation-new frontier. What was the standard of the work compared to now? Gold rush ----. A pristine area being kept intact and keeping the historical story alive for the future. Excellent, way to present the history of this area. Gold rush history and sacrifice. Historic, natural beauty. Klondike gold rush. The park is a time machine and the Klondike Gold Rush era. Conservation. Nature beauty. The development of Alaska.  Why people came here and how they lived. The settling of Alaska and the opening of the pass. Great place/great locations. Historical. Ranger Ann was excellent. Access for future visitors, nature beauty. Preserves history. History of Gold rush. Historical significance of the area that helped to shape the Northwest. Alaskan gold rush history created drive for state. History of Alaska and people connected to this area. History. Klondike gold rush of 1898, building of the railroad, homestead, early Skagway and the Klingits and the stampeders. Great to understand more about slavery thanks. History of area. Understanding Gold Rush. History and unique area. History. History-natural beauty. Shows a small slice of history. Historical site and lot of memory. Gold Rush brought people and rail road which helped build Alaska. Historical and sight seeing. To show people what it was like during the Gold Rush and to educate people. Incredible history-very important piece of our history and of the native people before U.S. History. Preserves the history of the pioneering and frenzied forging ahead during the AK Gold rush days. The history of the north and grit and determination necessary for successful homesteading. Signifies the importance of the gold rush and new it created the state. Great opportunity to learn about the Gold Rush. The historical significance of Skagway is best preserved and presented by your tasks staff.  Thank's for doing that. Historical education of expansion due to Gold Rush. History settling the west. Preservation of history.  Educational programs. Shows historically how people tried to advance themselves. This area affected the development of Alaska in many ways. Very relevant to development and settlement of Alaska. History of this part of U.S. Did not know about company L. Heritage of the town beautiful skagway, keeping it as it is. History. Learning about North and Klondike story by Ranger's presentation-wonderful story telling and sharing precious pictures by Ranger Katelyn. Significant to the history of Alaska. History and natural beauty. History of Alaska and Gold Rush. To teach and preserve history. History of beautiful Skagway, Alaska. Excellent history lesson. ----- to the ground and it was ---- to ---- wood ----.  One night I had to sleep on the warming mat-the other night I had to ----. History of the opening up Alaska through the gold rush! Historical and natural beauty."
164,George Rogers Clark NHP,GERO,"The hardship and dedication of ---- Rogers Clark and his men should be an example for everyone today. And Lincoln Nat'l Park was great as well! The breaking point in American history and the struggle of separation from Britain. This park celebrates a man and his battle in the Revolutionary War. Westward expansion of our nation.  The brave man who fought for it. Past history that is not available in our schools. Start of USA's Northwest territory. To preserve history. American expansion; regional and national history. It shows how we are were we are today. My 20 yr. old nephew did not know about this time frame (late 1770's) in our history.  He was very impressed. Tour rangers are the best! It helped to settle the Indiana territory. This park explains the situation and people who opened up the northwest territory of the U.S. Indiana history prior to statehood; westward expansion. Letting people know about an important person and even that is not well known. Revolutionary War history west of the mountains. I appreciated the Video Reenactment of George Rogers Clark's take over of Fort Sackville. Opening up the West to settlement defeating the British in battle. Location of Fort and preserved land to keep it away from developers. Conserving (and better educating) citizens about the significance of this battle which afforded my fore fathers opportunity to build homes. This Park is the site of an important battle in the Revolutionary War and commemorates George Rodgers Clark's contribution. Rev. War battle, expansion of U.S. territory. History. Well, we are here because of George Rogers Clark-here as part of the USA!  His vision helped shape our country. History remains to be told when so much is being destroyed. It demonstrates how GRC led white settlers to take over land owned by Indians and make it part of the US. History of founding of Indiana. Hoover a great man and teach and share his service to our great country. Very important.  The park shows Americans its history of how it gained IN, IL, MI, OH! Exploration of the USA. Great history! During the American Revolution Clark opened the west at this site. It describes how Vincennes came back under American control and lead to ---- exploration of the west and the great lakes border. A water shed event occurred here (that I was unaware of) that was instrumental in the expansion of the new nation-USA. The memorial was beautiful.  Educational significance in the establishment of our Country. Role in American Rev. War, ensured control of area by defeating British. Huge history involving various war events and it's impact on Indiana. 0 Great-very important! Yes.  We enjoyed this visit. Critical capture for establishing the U.S. in the midwest and protecting the ---- the colonies. The memorial recognizes one of the significant American victories of the revolutionary war.  It shaped our country's history and development. This was one of those hidden gems.  I learned a piece of the battle of Independence I didn't know before. Securing the Indiana territory from British during revolutionary war, assuring expansion of the United States. I honestly didn't know much about George Rogers Clark and the Revolutionary War heritage of this area until I moved here and became familiar with the Memorial. If George Rogers Clark had not felt so strongly about accomplishing this mission, the States in which I live and work (IL and IN) may not exist today. I'm not sure it deserves more than it is!  The movie was great! George Rogers Clark was our first special DPS mission! Was how Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Michigan changed sides to ---- states. Later becoming states. This is wehre the long ---- of George Rogers Clark ---- the British at ----. 0 Saved nation west of the Alleghenies. This park has significant historical importance of the revolutionary war and is a story not widely known or appreciated. The events at this site made it possible for the USA to have claim to the old Northwest. This park educates the public about the actions of WM Clark's oldest brother . Geo Rogers Clark.  By defeating the British at Vincennes, Clark paved the way for Westward exploration/expansion beyond the Wabash R and settlement North of the Ohio river. It explains the role of G.R. Clark in saving KY and opening up that country to exploration and settlement. To honor GR Clark's contribution to the founding of the US. Recognition of a somewhat unknown American hero. The monument, park, and ---- brings forth the great accomplishment of Clark and his ---- that not only kept the British from opening a second front in the rev. but retained the Midwest ---- the northwest ----. It is highly significant to the state of Indiana and the Midwest, and as such it would make an equally significant state park. George Rogers Clark's success led to opening of the Northwest Territory. Learning more history associated with George Rodgers Clark and Revolutionary War period/battles/history of Vincennes. Education about American expansion, Native history and interaction between French, Natives, British and U.S.. To provide education to younger generations and to some of our older men and women too.  Very good park. A tribute to a great leader and the sacrifice that created our country. Ranger very knowledgeable and helpful.  Knew little about GRC part in Revolution and subsequent importance. Western US might have been another country's had it not been for George Rogers Clark! Preservation of a site with historic significance to American independence and westward expansion of the nation. Remembering our long struggle for independence from England. Very little promotion of a significant historical event and man that shaped the geographic boundary of this country."
165,Gateway NRA-Sandy Hook,GATEb,"One of the few beaches which is still a park and Fort Hancock. Fort Wadsworth history.  Beauty of natural resources. Summer recreation. Love the nude beach-need more tarp and availability to big wheel wheelchairs. The military history. Military base and proximity to NYC. We have been coming here for forty-plus years.  Always GREAT. Naval base (?) on end of park. Very important. It's the only nude beach in Jersey, but they need more mats to beach. ----, extremely important to this environmental ---- of the area. The history. History. A year-round nature show.  Always clean with something new to see every time I come. Good R and R area for people. Family, friendly environment, relaxation. Freedom to enjoy nature. Clothing optional beach, yea! The lighthouse is awesome. Beautiful beaches! Nature and history. Recreation, swimming. Preserve and maintain the heart of the plant. Not sure. Historical-lighthouse and defense.  Natural-undisturbed beach. Wildlife Sanctuary and Gunnison Battery. Extremely important. Forts, historical background. Nature/preserving nature. Not to sure. Not sure. Naval base near end of park? Used 6 house soldiers. Lighthouse and forts. Keeping nature preserved. Beach ----. Open space, open to all, early US history. Unspoiled natural shore. Great public place to use beach at a reasonable cost. Line of defense and protection during war! Beautiful and historic. It's historical. The history it holds. Used to be a military base. The beach. Large underdeveloped areas in a crowded environment. WWII buildings and exhibits. The beach. The front at the hook.  Guarding the bag.  The bird sanctuaries.  Space for citizens to enjoy nature. To demonstrate the importance of the history and wonderful scenery. Love the history and the light house. Natural beauty and family time. The history of New Jersey's base. History-explorers, Native American, military uses, pirates and smugglers, natural beauty/----, wildlife, plants. Great access to the ocean and beautiful. Used to be ----> Gateway to NYC. Great nature spot. Very good recreation for the family. Great outdoor experience! The historical portion of the end of Sandy Hook is important to our history. Wonderful. Wonderful. Historic spot of NJ and the site was great for defense. It is important to know about American history. Natural beaches. The cold war, the nature. Military history. It was first and ---- our ---- ---- ---- ----. Gateway to the NY harbor, lighthouses, naval history, natural history. History of man/placement was strategic to U.S. protection. Gateway to NY harbor. This is one of our nations 1st vacation/summer spots-where everyone from blue collar workers to Presidents came to enjoy the beauty. Military wild life. Very helpful in term of children recreation. It clean and quiet. ----. This park will always be historical to me and my family. Commercial shipping and protection.  (----) Fort ---- ----.  ---- ----. The surroundings. Entrance to NY border, light houses and coast guard history. The historical value-please don't sell or tear down officers row!  Restore it!  The beach is quiet and enjoyable-natural and many habitats. The facts and historic homes and lighthouse. Light house and war artifacts. Protect harbor. The freedom we have to come and relax and ---- the history here and in the surrounding area. As a nation we need to preserve our outdoor spaces for people to enjoy nature. Keep up the good works. It's a great place.  How many national parks have this great a beach. Historical and beautiful reserve. Movies on the beach. Public beach use. Historical significance light house. Military rare. Wonderful and educational. It has great history as a military facility. Not sure. This is one of the only national parks along the Atlantic coast. National defense. Gateway to NY harbor. It is the gateway to our great state!  And allows many to have a close respite from city living.  I have been coming here for 50+ years and it only gets better. The location during war time. Easy pass lane, handicap parking better signage, to much trash on the beach. Beach! Great. Location. Overall great place, fishing, sun bathing, clothing optional. The lighthouse and the old barracks. It's bio diversity. Battles fought here, forts that were set up. Entrance to Port NY, gateway beach with NYC back drop! It was a fort for protection of the NY harbor and it has a cool lighthouse. Quiet, tranquil. It is truly a beautiful beach, very quiet.  The bay has a lot of wild life. Clean, respectful, maybe a garbage bag for everyone at the entrance. Lighthouse and military history. To relax and enjoy nature in a safe environment with historical background. This park is invaluable. A real piece of history with the ----. It's beautiful special on walk. Good for people. The beach. It's importance during the war and the marshes. Old national ----. Gateway to NYC, entrance to America. Clear, undeveloped coast especially so close to NYC. Valuable. The beach. History and excellent place to relax. Historic. Security, protection. It's a beautiful and unique piece of land. To protect the water ways involved. It was to protect our shores during the war, people in this state need to be more aware of this and appreciate the park! Show us how ---- is the nations history. Good. The beauty is wonderful.  I love it so relaxing and I can bike, walk, swim all in one place. It's historic center and science learning facility at the tip of the hook. It's natural beauty.  It's military history.  It's local history. Historically was important. It's history defending NY harbor since before World War I and marking harbor entrances. Beauty and natural habitat for some animals. Great for beach. Great place for families. Historical value, nature. History harbor became, more life guards. History. It makes me realize how lucky we are to have a beautiful beach and park! It shows the history of what this location once was. It's a gateway to the US and close to NY. Lots of history. Love Jersey and the sights. More family oriented. Represents NJ. The fort and defending our country.  Also preserving our seashore from ----. The Garden state is known for it's parks and it should be noted that it's beaches are just as beautiful. This park is significant because of it's age and the light house.  Also fort Hancock. Would like to take a tour. It's a place where people can come and share what our country has done for us especially with our kids. Recreational influence. Historical preservation. Entertaining for kids and adults, great time (family). Part of our American battle history. The preservation of wildlife and a guided view of the park. World War II good. Relaxation. It was/is an important defense post for NY harbor. Its beauty. Our gateway to heaven.  Our older days of history are right there. The history. Important to learn about history of the island in both cultural and military purposes and natural beauty itself. They need money from feds. It's historic past to protect US from invaders passing through the water entrance (bay) and rivers. Fort Hancoor.  The military facilities that protected NY Harbor and surrounding areas.  Location, views of NYC, the highlands of ----. Fort Hancock, built to protect us. Very good. Gateway to NY Harbor relies on the past cold war era. Right now most people (in my opinion) just consider it a beach.  They have no idea of the importance that Ft. Hancock once had. Need to open up Gunnison Beach FULLY.  ""Nesting ----  birds"" are only at Gunnison?  Hah, discrimination!  Need to install a volleyball net at Gunnison Beach.  Just like the other beaches have!  Discrimination. It is great having such a wild and open recreation area in the NYC metro area.  The clothing optional beach is its most important feature. Clean, safe environment for wildlife and all living things-big and small!  One thing: how about a ""pass only"" tollbooth? (No cash.)"
166,Gateway NRA-Staten Island,GATEc,"It brings us to old times where it is ---- to ----. To tell the story and importance of the early defense systems of the NYC harbor. A tribute to one of the most interesting presidents ever. I got to learn a lot about Fort Wadsworth.  And it was very cool too! To learn the history of the structure and land. Defense of New York harbor. Miller Field-historic airfield.  Ft. Wadsworth-sign in Revolutionary War.  Great Kills-nice beach area. Ft. Wadsworth-Revolutionary War.  Miller Field-historic airfield.  Great Kills not sure, just nice park. Historic protection of NY harbor. So many reasons, from colonialism to the 21st century.  The tour guides in Fort Hamilton and Battery Weed were INCREDIBLE! Shows how the government and people treasured their (our own) land and took measures to protect our harbors-NYC. Historical illumination. History. To protect the NY harbor. Nice. History of fortification of NY harbor. To show how the harbor was protected against foreign enemies. It pays tribute to veterans and active service ---- ---- ----. It is reminder of our history and connects people to our nation ---- ----. It's history. Military. This fort guards the entrance of our most important harbor for hundreds of years.  History upon history as uses evolve. To stop the British. Military. Great significance is part of NY history but need more maintenance and restoration especially weed fort. To teach the young about historical events. It was a major fort in history. Great historical value. It's use as a fort to protect the nation and particularly NY. Historical protecting the harbor NYC and to remind us of our freedom in America. It was great. Please open the museum. Yes this site is worthwhile. Historical Military. Very significant-harbor defenses of NYC! It's green possibilities and outdoor experience for all people. The history. National security. Protect the fortifications of NYC and preserve it's legacy. To allow people to never forget history, and be able to stand on history grounds. History of old NYC and military in New York. Protecting the homeland. Protecting the port of NY. To highlight proximity to Brooklyn and the relationship between boroughs. To have fun and to learn about the past. Military history. Preserving history! Fort Wadsworth. Historical and ----. To inform the people of ---- of our history. I had lots of fun look for the history peace. Defend when fought for Revolutionary War.  Has major significance as 22,000 shops come to SI from England. It's part of our history. Amazing national park. Defense, beauty. It's been a point of defense for over 100 yrs.  Today it presents beautiful vistas. Shows military history of New York Harbor and city. Provides beautiful views for sightseeing. This reinforces why we have a strong republic.  Freedom is not free nor should we take it for granted! Fort Wasworth, S.I. area looks the view for bay. I would like to have the opportunity to see BATTERY WEED. History, scenic location. It's significance in relation to York City's harbor defense system. Open space and nature available to everyone.  Camping facilities at the base of a beautiful bridge overlooking the sea. Very important. Fort Wadsworth is a vital piece of history as it reminds all Americans of the wars fought to protect our freedom and liberties! Excellent display on how NY Harbor was protected 200 years ago.  Great visuals of Manhattan. 1st line of defense in that area for a very long time."
167,Jean Lafitte NHP & Pres,JELA,"Preservation of a unique geographic area and culture. Promotion and encouragement for the arts and the culture in this area. Preservation and interpretation of Cajun culture. Preserved much of significance of early Louisiana, particularly French heritage. No opinion. Cajun heritage museum. Great local history. Good representation of a unique culture and members of the population. It not only is a beautiful thing to see, it also has a lot of history to learn about!  Before I didn't know much beforehand! To learn about Louisiana culture and history beautiful. A nation is made up of individuals.  This place tells a very interesting story of a significant group of individuals. I really do not know, however, based on the information in the center I can see how it could be. It is a great venue for the arts and theater.  It was specifically nice to have a student art show. This bayou country is very unique and this park serves all the French country and bayou. History of ED White and the sugar cane industry. It is important to remember the different cultural histories of the nation.  Only through appreciation of our differences will we find our commonalties. Cajun culture, history, music, lifestyle and language. Cajun heritage museum. Bayou-Ed White plantation. Excellent representation. Gives great information about historic and natural wild life. It embodies the zest of the New Orleans, Louisiana area.  I learned more about the state than I've ever known. Preserving history and nature. The park gives great insight to the past great historical/political influences in Louisiana. To teach about heritage and the culture. Very educational and historic. History. Cajun culture. Educates on one of many cultures and history that is part of our National history. This was the first battle with all races and creeds fighting side-by-side as equals. 0 NOLA history/culture. The visitor center is a bit dated though. It was where our country got it's independence well one of the spots at least! New Orleans is and was a very influential and important region to our country-culture and trade ecology. New Orleans is ---- ---- beautiful part of ---- ---- is great to hear everything ---- tons and the history. To learn plight of the Cajuns. Historical significance to region. Very informative. The history of the battle of New Orleans. Educating about the Acadians. Louisiana Cypress swamp awareness. Representative of the US becoming a free nation. Learned a lot about the nature of the delta and the mix of ethnic groups and bought some interesting books. Preservation of jazz/history of ----. Saved the new USA from the British and ---- Andrew Jackson to national attention. Developed to honor our fallen heroes it reminds of us of the significant history of our country. City and cultural history and its unique contribution to American life. New Orleans history. The history of the Arcadian ---- and, particularly, the settlement on Louisiana has, had an impact on national culture for beyond most people knowledge its origin. The video on ---- of ---- was very ----.  Thank you for ---- when you are normally closed. The history of the Cajun people. Good look at Acadiana (Cajun country). It preserves and promotes the history of a little-understood part of our culture. Wonderful welcome and very interesting exhibit-movie was also educational. Described how this area of ---- was populated by the Acadians. To know what we are national of people from all places and deserve a place in our world. War 1812. Highlighting and educating on the history of Arcadiana.  Felt the video somewhat demonized the English-overly. The battle of New Orleans/war of 1812. This park make visible a very important contribution to the diversity and culture of our nation. Extreme significance preserves more ----. Determination of ---- and ---- from different ---- and ----.  Keep America ---- ----. Really a national, federally funded park named after a slave trader?  Perhaps name other sections after the first settlers. Without it's story being told, the battle of New Orleans being what it was no one would know how ---- came to not being a nation. One of the most important ---- ---- fought for the freedom and ---- nation. The battle of New Orleans civil and Viet Nam veterans ----. Historical education for future generations. Reminder of history-so as not to forget the history of the country. Cemetery walks very poor; a hazard. Preservation of natural history. Relates to history of New Orleans and Louisiana. It's the most poignant battle in American history. Battle of new Orleans!  And civil war cemetery. The walking/driving tour educational stops give excellent information; visitor center, too. Absolutely. Free U. S. From ----. To preserve ---- ----. Introduced/---- local culture and a record of unique history. History of New Orleans-the geography, the history and the people. Telling the story of the city. French settlement history-I appreciate it's here but time to refresh exhibit and show movie on area-not wind cave. Educating citizens on the importance of preserving wetlands. Gives great history of New Orleans and the area. Staff very helpful and professional.  Thanks. Great historical and environmental significance. From the stand point of a citizen who knew nothing about the bayou or cultures of New Orleans this gem of a park was an enlightenment. People to ---- more about our city. It's unique ecosystem and rich heritage. Wetlands loss messages. That wetlands in S. LA influence and support a great deal of there industries and regions in the U.S. Foremost watershed of North American wetlands. Swamp/march environment. Very important.  Wetlands and bayous are so important for the ecology of the earth. Extremely significant. Diversity of Americans historically and today-need to bring this out more.  Also-history of free blacks and town. History well beyond just War of 1812-so much more occurred at this site-tell it. Important U.S. Military Victory. Sharing our heritage and the importance of recycling and caring for our community. Unsure as I'm from Texas. French speaking of music. PACC. Acadian history and culture, language, music, cooking programs!  Have been to Nova Scotia and nice to learn the story from this side. Enhancing understanding of ---- influence as part of American history. Great education venue. Heritage of the people of this Country. Over whelming. Reflects the unique quality of life otherwise forgotten through our ---- and assimilation as a Nation. Extremely important to visitors but more so to the local population to see the value of their culture. The historical value of the Cajuns to the Country-culture, food, customs, etc. AWESOME. Fantastic promotion of culture! Regional cultural awareness. Cajun Culture-how they survived and flourished here. Make people more aware of an important Battle in our history. Important park for U.S. history."
168,Hopewell Culture NHP,HOCU,"Mounds. We should be so thankful that this was saved. Preservation of history for those to come. Wonderful history resource.  I knew of the Mound Builders-but not of the NHP. Native American history. I think this park is significant due to what is preserved compared to similar areas. Mounds. Indians. High.  We need to preserve more earth works. Natives. Native history is always important! Retaining the history of the area and educating folks about it. Unique treasure in your back yard. It is significant because it provides a tangible visual history about some of the earliest Native Americans that lived in Ohio over 2,000 years ago. It tells us about the history of our area and instills curiosity and pride in people. Understanding the past. Preservation of historical significance. Yes. It's cool. Cultural heritage. Preservation of Non-Euro Cultural artifacts and structures. Preserve earth works of the Hopewell culture. Preserving the ancient culture of the Hopewell people. To preserve the natural history of the Hopewell People. Historical perspectives not usually seen. It is important to preserve past cultures. Culture preservation. Highly significant. Historical value. Hopewell People. Yes learned a lot of historical value. Preserving and interpreting prehistoric culture of Native Americans in the ---- Valley. It honors the culture of the Native Americans. Important native history. Earth works. It is a good start to preserve historical places and learn about the past. Preserving history. Keeping the history alive. Protecting the hopewell culture for future generations. History. Heart of prehistoric America-in the heart of it all-Ohio. Everyone should know the original history of the U.S. It contains the largest earthenworks in North America. Preserving history that would be long forgotten due to people being uneducated. An excellent site to explore ancestry. This is our national history that needs to be preserved. It's beyond national. This extraordinary very important to understand human capabilities and achievements. Preservation of Native American history. Culture involving half the Country is certainly of National significance. Awesome. Mound Builder Culture. Seeing the artifacts and the actual site of the Mounds.  Being able to see it for one self. Significant to all human kind to see progression of people/culture/way of life. To ensue we maintain and preserve the Heritage and culture of early America. Interesting to find out about Pre-European Culture in North America. This park explains the ancient culture of our region (2000 years ago) to the limited extent that is known.  Mystery prevails. Native American history. Preserving ancient native American sites sad about the ---- 1 camp.  But we learn from our mistakes. History. Cultural diversity/History.  Awareness of pre Columbian history other than European. The history of the Native people living and using this land before ---- of it by Europeans. A view into history and gives us today a view into the past.  For many people there is very little we know of our history.  Very important. Preserving our Native American heritage. The fact that no American has significant history yet to be explained. Great national significance of people who built this land. Preserving heritage and education. Preserving the archeological history of the continent. Age of culture, scale, astronomy and architecture. Preserving our ancient heritage. Wonderful sites! Mounds. Educating generations about country's history and cultures. Camp Sheman. Lovely parks, much better than first visit 15 years ago. History of Hopewell culture. Preserves Hopewell Culture which is important to our nation. The significance of preserving the Hopewell culture and connection to previous civilizations. All those what is about a disappeared nation with a great culture and knowledge. We must remember who was here before! Extreme importance! History of Mound Builders.  Their existence the monumental feat of building these mounds. Preserves ancient history of Native Americans. This site protects a unique, fascinating piece of our history, completely unique to the world. To those that have parent before us. Hope well people. Deeper understanding of the culture and artifacts of native peoples in the area-excellent. Evidence of an amazing prehistoric culture that he was not preserved or respected well historically. Our native American heritage must be preserved! Hope well people. Indian's history. Make people aware of Hopewell cultural achievements. High. Historical significance of the Souther Ohio area. Archeology. Exhibit/display. Hope well culture. To preserve the history of native peoples."
169,Fort Laramie NHS,FOLA,"The fort played a vital part during early years of our nation's founding and a vital role in Pony Express and Oregon Trail. Family history, pioneer heritage and military heritage. The last supply point for Westward travelers. I think it's ----. HISTORY-key part of western expansion. It shows how America's west continued through fur trading, immigration, and Indian wars. Most important historical site for establishment of a coast country. Preserve history and development of the west. History. The expansion of the nation west. Center of activities between native American culture.  Military center for ---- and establishment of additional forts, Oregon, ----, CA, trails-pony express ---- center of western development. Very historical!! Historical. History of our westward migration. 0 Past history. The preservation of the first fort is excellent. Historical significance's. I live in Costa Rica so I learned a lot about your history in this park. High-very and significant historical site. The taming of the ---- and a nation moving west! Heritage and culture. Historical significance-Ft. Laramie. History of westward migration. Growing the U.S. Frontier history, westward expansion, pioneers, etc. Info on the western movement. It was the site of many native-U.S.. negotiations and played a big role in the Indian wars. It's relevance to westward expansion (and shafting"" native Americans. Lots of history. Major part of forming of U.S. excellent! Multiple levels of eras-people from all locations came here, fur trade, trappers, native Americans, etc. Very nice site. Yes. Historical point of interest. Historical sacrifice to make America a special place. History.  To know where we come from. It helps to inform young and old to understand how and why the nation came to be what it is today. It is of great importance-we loved learning about this very important time in our nation's history.  Outstanding! It represents to western expansion of the nations. It shows what people in the era used and lived in. Number 1 historical site in Wyoming and west immigration. One of the gateways to the west. Pony express stop.  Protection fort for settlers. The history of civilization coming to what we know!  Now!  All kinds of people ----. The settlement of the west expanded the USA.  Very well kept, friendly and knowledgeable staff. History. The unfortunate conflict with the Indians and imitation of people going left. Westward expansion history. History of the area. It's history. To teach people about out/the past and and how it varies from the present. Very interesting, preserves a part of Western history. 0 Westward expansion. History of westward expansion. Military history. To show some of our history. History of movement of citizens west. The Pony Express came here and living of the soldiers. I feel it is very important for young generation to be able to see and understand our history. The Oregon trail-very significant. Important historical sight. Settlement of the west relationships with native peoples. Teach the importance of history. Played an important part in the movement of people to various point.  West and North besides Indian protection and a place to buy supplies. Very important. Fort Laramie NP is a reminder of hardships endured by military protecting pioneers. Historic trail. History of Wyoming. How well the fort has been preserved. Important and should be preserved. Opening of the frontier. Remembering the old west as it was. Settling of the west-etc. It is significant because it served as a stop on the Oregon trail and for the development of the nation. Development of the American west; history of 19th century. For us to learn about our relations with native Americans, what living conditions may have been like for service mentors. Key location in the American west and important to our heritage. One of the great places of our nation. Shows how the west was opened to exploration and expansion. State history, learning more. The historical information is wonderful. To preserve the history of the development of that ----. To protect settlers. To protect settlers. Preserve and display military history in the West. Nice to learn how the West was settled. We loved ----. Great historic site to visit and teach. Tells the history of the westward ----. Historical info was great and staff very knowledgeable. This shows the history of our country.  The understanding of the balance of Indians and the white men. Demonstrates importance of Fort Laramie during western emigration. History of U.S. expansion west and demonstration of life at that time, especially in Army. Settling of the west and the role that the military played in it. Family was here 1865. Helped the US support Westward expansion. Keeping history alive! Settling of the West. The park serves as a reminder of the difficulties of living in the West and traveling West in a simple time of less conveniences. To keep history alive for future generations. Amazing when you think of it. It's significant in not just Wyoming's history but the nation as a whole. The settling of the West. Outpost in the 19th century. All the history. Important stop on the trek west, and we should all learn of, and appreciate, its significance. The historical significance of what happened here.  We need to remember. History. The critical link in spanning the continent from east to west. Early frontier history/military history. History and development of the West.  History and destruction of Natives and animals. Very important to this part of the country and the different ""roles"" played. It's good to learn about the history of our country and military. Preservation of a historic fort. The national significance of the park is its meaning for all the emigrants and foothold in Western history. It is the military fort that opened up the West. Logistics and security center for westward bound wagon trains enabling expansion of USA. Education. Historical. American history-we came from Australia. It is extremely important in preserving our American history settling of the West. Keeps our history alive. Fantastic glimpse of important American history. Historically amazing player in early America. Learn from mistakes and rebuilt. Many people going west came through Fort Laramie on their way west. Preserving a historical treasure. Preserving history. Provides an opportunity for sharing of early history of the West. Settling of the West. Stiff is exceptional. Very important to remember the past as it was. Very informational. National support of westward expansion. The immigration west, the trappers and traders-historical. History in general. Important."
170,Tuzigoot NM,TUZI,"The realization of the use of this area in prehistoric times in an historic concept that all should realize. Love the ruins-well kept. Native cultures are not all of a piece, this helps to understand and differentiate ---- tribes and migration. Very significant-more study should be done. The importance and focus on recognition of the people who were here before the current dominant population demographics. Very significant.  Montezuma Castle and Tuzigost give us a real sense of the cultural and historical people.  Artifacts are wonderful. Learning about Indian history. Hundreds of years of a history. Angela's ancient history! ---- has been lost to ""progress"". It is to interesting to learn about the people who come before us and this culture. For our nation to remember it's beginnings by it's native peoples and to keep humble. Indian culture. Real history. Knowing more about those before us. It shows the way the nations ancient indigenous peoples lived and thrived. Shows native Americans life. Preservation of ancient civilization. Preserves the culture and homes of peoples living there thousands of year ago.  Gives us today a glimpse of our past. Historical insight into life in North America, several hundred years ago. Best and most accessible example of a past culture. It's so important to preserve history and teach our kids to respect there priceless treasures. The beginning of North America, it's people, plants and animals. Very important for all citizens to see our country. It tells about past cultures and people who came and left this area. It's important for kids and adults to see first-hand what life was like for those people who were here before we were! It's the only restored ancient pueblo that we've ever seen.  Very well done. Very important. Very valuable. History. Historical. Crucial to understanding the whole and complete history of the Nation. Protecting original (Native) America. Yes, great information. Wealth of information and enjoyment. Insight into history of area, ----. Our Country's heritage/history. The history behind the monument is incredible. Describes our early ancestry for a ---- young nation. Native American culture. Historical recording of retention. People and way of life before us. Preserving history of this area and the people that lived here. Thanks! Very much enjoyed my visit.  Very interesting I thought the place was rather expensive and could deter young families ($10/pp). To inform people of the diverse native of our country. Important. Wonderful way to learn about the native American culture. Preserving and appreciating ancestors and history. History of local region, early inhabitants. Cultural value and local history to this region and it's indigenous people's. History of the area is very significant to this area. Learning about history of the people. Respect, honor and educate history/native American cultures. History of SW U.S. An excellent example of EARLY history re. the America's and indigenous peoples. Historical relevance of why people live here today vs.  past. The Indian tribes of the area and their building techniques. To show past cultures. Cultural ----. Education. Heritage of NA's. History of our land and the people who lived here. Preserving history, educating us about this history. Bringing the historical significance of the Mohave Indian life. Need to know and remember our past. Preserve. Very clean. History. Ancient cultures. Very important to persons interested in the life of people in the past. Invaluable. Part of set of important National monuments celebrating (informing modern-day ---- about Native history and life style. To preserve history. The history of this Country. Historically significant. Preservation of culture is invaluable to our future. Preserving our past is of utmost importance-I want my Granddaughter to experience this one day. I believe all ancient cultures and history belong to all of us.  We should cherish and respect what was left behind. Cultural history. It is very important to learn and see the history of those who came before. Learning about the history of this Country. Parks are wonderful for all. Very important to learn about ancestry. Yes, indeed History of the culture. Historical perspective of Native American impact. Native American history. Very significant. History of area. Preserving history. History of early peoples. Preservation of Ancient Cultures is vital for future generations. Preservation of past history. Protection of the dwelling. Understanding wide scope and spread of pre-European contact peoples. A must! Extremely valuable. Has information on Native American architecture and life I have not seen elsewhere. Historical perspective. Historical. History. Preserving history. Sharing our ---- for current and future generations. To learn about our Native American heritage. Vital to entire Western history. We have enjoyed several of the National Parks this week. We need more like this. History. Preservation such historic place like here would be important for educating younger generation for better future. To give an eye view on how the Hopi lived. Historical values. History of this ----. Older than the USA. Preservation of history. Very high excellent facility, terrific explanations. Where we came from. This establishment preserves important history of our Country. Learning about cultures long ago. Native American history. History-ancient ways view. How people lived and evolved ---- communities. As Americans we need to remember that civilization was here BEFORE the Europeans arrived. Culture-people before European settlement. Good insight into how the people of this are lived.  Interesting to see the dwellings. Views into the REAL history of the ""nation"". Historic. Historical, archeological, valuable prospective of changing populations. Great park-we loved it. High. Historically important. History of Native American people who lived here. History. I think it's very important work you are doing by restoring this monument. Important to be aware of lives and contributions of early people. Preserving history. Shows us our history and roots, how we once lived with nature. Great! Historical. History. Very educational. Very informative and very significant to our history. History, culture, protection ----. History of the nation. Indian heritage. Especially ----. Seeing into the past and the beauty of nature. The summer cooling house linger the view tower. Good. Indians. The heritage of our nation. Parks and monuments bring us back to a shared common heritage from a Native cultural past and immigrant growth. Agreed. Historical culture. History and culture of Native American culture. History and information ---- people. History is very important and the culture. History of our culture. History, native people in the area. So many times, Native American cultures are forgotten. This sight is so important as it gives a glimpse of those who were here first. To see and better understand how Native people lived and adapted to environment, climate, etc. Very significance. Archaeology. Preservation of our history. The ruins have a great view of the Valley. Helps understanding of our pre-colonial history and the native culture. Native American engineering and history to preserve it. History. Preserve history-very necessary! History of native peoples. History. Historical, environmental. Preserving the part of native cultures, great talk by Mr. Larson. Showing our Arizona history. History of Native Americans. To recognize that the human was here long ago-important for society today to respect our history and care about where we came from. Historical record of prior people and culture in the area. We enjoy ALL of the ruins throughout the southwest.  Thanks."
171,Perry's Victory & International Peace Memorial,PEVI,"Battle of Lake Erie, during the war of 1812. Battle that secured the navigation of the Great Lakes for war of 1812. Provide outdoor enjoyment, historic facts and resources abound at this island park.  Interactive rich learning experiences for both young and old. It show cases a vital Battle with the British ensuring ultimate victory for USA.  God Bless America! Preserved the Union. It educates people on a decisive battle in one of the forgotten wars. The celebration of peace between countries. It's a historic site as well as a place to enjoy the views of the lake away from downtown. It represents our Freedom from the ----. Battle of Lake Erie. It is very significant.  The War of 1812 is a major part of US history that seems to be overlooked. Victory, peace between countries. War of 1812. Battle of Lake Erie. Peace and cooperation among 3 different nations involved in battles on laker. Historical value to the United States. US Pride and history. Battle that helped establish US Territory. Commemorate War of 1812 Battle of Lake Erie. Very important part of US history! Learning about a war to protect the great lakes-a national treasure and largest fresh water supply in the world.  Thankful for ---- Perry! To Commemorate the battle of Lake Erie a turning point in the War of 1812. Highlights development of US/and on relations. Peace from victory in War. Peace. To teach about the War of 1812. Victory and peace. Battle of 1812. Battle of lake Erie. Battle of Lake Erie. Peace with Canada and Great Britain. Possible to have peaceful relations with neighboring countries without ""building a wall""! To education, the community and preserve history. To honor Perry. Victory over British.  Peace between 3 nations. Battle of Lake Erie historical site.  Remembrance of the folks who died here. Education concerning historical significance of War of 1812. History made real. One of a kind! Peace. Save the Northwest Territory in War of 1812. The significance ---- War of 1812. Remembering the full impact of the War of 1812. The peace with Canada. Yes. Peace and Victory. Picnic tables need umbrellas. The 4000 peaceful border! Battle of Lake Erie. We love our National Parks!  Great educational opportunities. Control of Lake Erie. Excellent monument to Perry's Victory! Our victory over the British and continued peace with other nations. Two nations peaceful existence without border defenses.  4000 miles of peaceful co-existence as a model for the world. We love National Parks. A reminder of the folly of invading other countries. Appreciating that the British continued to be a threat long after the Rev. War of 1776. Well done. The importance of the battle to the war of 1812.  Long-lasting peace between Britain and U.S. War of 1812. Peace, war, battle of Lake Erie. I think school field trips should include this monument, and museum. Peace between U.S. and Canada. Shows historical importance of post war and peace. Battle of Lake Erie. Peace and victory. Peace. The peace it has created between USA and Canada. It's that lighthouse at put-in-bay. War of 1812. To pass on the knowledge about the Battle of Lake Erie to future generations. Geography, history and scenery. Remembering those who paved the way for freedom. Commemorating significant battle in War of 1812. Yes, it preserved our freedom! Making Northwest Territory a permanent part of U.S.. War of 1812 history. In preserving and protecting our country. Its history. War and history with its significance between U.S. and Canada. 1815 victory and peaceful ---- ----. Honor O.H. Perry and his contribution to peace between U.S. and Canada. Peace, war. Very important to northwest Ohio and our part played in this national event. To remember Perry and his men in the Battle of Lake Eric and to honor international peace. Peace between US, Canada, and Great Britain, and the victory of the Battle of Lake ----. This park shows the peace shared between our borders and the cost of that peace. Birth of US as world power. Reminder of the cost of freedom and, hopefully, a lasting peace. The peace between Canada, Britain, and America. Peace. Important Ohio Heritage. Recognition of the war of 1812 and the peace that came with it (our 2 greatest allies). Strong relations with Canada and Britain. This shows so clearly the beginning of our country! To educate others on the Battle of Lake Eric. War of 1812. That neighbors (US and Canada) can live in peace. The war of 1812 was affirmation of our won freedom from British rule.  Small though it be, Lake Erie is still a great lake! Freedom/peace. Very significant I like this ---- ""peace"" angle. The battle and Perry's victory, longest peaceful border. Celebrate and inform of war of 1812. The war of Lake Erie/1812. The victory of the US and the ending of the war of 1812.  The peace between the US and Canada and Britain. Peace can be achieved through disarmament. Very significant-I learned a lot. Reminder of peace between Canada and USA. Peace. The movie on the war of 1812 was very informative and the monument is remarkable, peace is possible! Victory of ---- Perry in the battle of Lake Erie and the peace it brought to 3 countries. War of 1812/victory/peace memorial. Knowing our history and also pride in our area/community/country. To let us know about the peace between Canada and U.S. ----/----. The victory of peace between Canada and US for over 200 yrs. Historic memorial to battle and war of Lake Erie of 1812. Peaceful existence between Canada and U.S. 1812 War and battle of Lake Erie. Very-battle retained power over the Great Lakes. Site of a turning point battle; lasting memorial to peace between Canada, Britain and the U.S. Perry's monument."
172,Sand Creek Massacre NHS,SACR,"Stark reminder of complexity of our national history and the brutality of the European ""conquest"" of the West. It reminds us of the tragedy resulting from our fear of those different from ourselves. To bring attention to the plight of native Americans. Very significant because of the massacre of the Indians. A ---- to value people. History. Significant revelation of Native American culture and mistreatment. It causes us to pause, reflect, mourn and make personal commitments to live in harmony and respect with all peoples. A great example of history intolerance toward Indian people. America has been wrong in it's policies.  This park is proof.  Very good time. Indian treatment. Keep our history alive, so we don't make the same mistakes to learn how the Indian were mistreated. Important historic event. This park is significant b/c it shows that not all is bright in our history.  In order to better direct the future of the US we need to know it's past, good and bad. Significant because of how we treat each other. It's history had a profound and under appreciated affect on the history of the Indian wars. Everything! Great importance to covey history of Indian massacre at Sandy Creek, KS 1864 by Col. Shevington/Am. Army. To show respect and to teach about the massacre that happened there.  Would be nice if there was more history available about the massacre and possibly artifacts or presentations. A sad bit of our history-needs to be told.  We need to learn! Location of the Sand Creek Massacre. Historic.  A lesson from our earlier history, and a recognition of the importance to Native Americans. Poor choice by early leaders, we were not there or understand their decision process.  Innocent American Citizens ---- It is important to remember this event. Excellent addition to NPS. Recognition of our history-all our history even at it's worst. It is a sacred place to remember the dead at this slaughter. But, this park has some development yet to do. Look to big whole for example. Under valued.  It is a part of history we try to ignore because it tarnishes our image. Important to know and understand as much as possible reason and context of this sad, unnecessary tragedy. To remind America's that America is not that innocent and not to do it again w/other nationalities. Remember that the Indians have been fooled in the past. How the United States Army massacred innocent women, old men and children of the Native Americans. Extremely important. Making us aware of the terrible moral price we paid for ""manifest, destiny"".  Teaching us about the best (Black Soule and Kettle Cramer) and Covington worst humans. To remember not only the politics behind this massacre but to remember the type of person that ordered this event to happen.  And to recognize when this happens today in this country and the people that try to cover it up.  WTC 9/11-who cares about it today. It is important for the dominant white culture to acknowledge and recognize that it's history has occasionally been stained by atrocity, that Indians were often victims. The Government is finally admitting what was done to the Indians (at least a little part). Vital history to be preserved, taught and remembered. This site informing us about the actual details of the atrocity committed here against the native American. To show the governments intent in apologizing and remembering Sand Creek. This marks a sad, tragic and barbaric time in the history of the USA that must not be forgotten. To remember and discuss the horrors that took place at Sand Creek at the hands of the U.S.. It is a story that must be told.  Not all history is positive.  It's important to own up to our mistakes.  No one wants to serve a country that thinks they're right and everyone is wrong.  The Native Americans are Americans! Truthful history. That there are pieces of US history and it's relations with Native Americans that we should never forget.  The the US military did band and good things on it's drive to the West. That is has been declared a ""massacre"" and not just a ""battlefield.""  There was no battle.  A very solemn site. Forces the Government to face up to their mistakes. Tells about America's past. A stark reminder of a dark event, unfortunately being repeated worldwide today. To show the maybe lost true story. To help us as a Nation remember our mistakes, prevent us from repeating them and to honor and remember those who fell unfairly. To learn more about Indian history.  So sad they were treated so poorly."
173,Cabrillo NM,CABR,"It protects a marine and shore line eco system from money hunger Southern California developers. Historic value and education. The view!  The lighthouse. Very important! In the past this site was of great national significance, thus very significant. The European history of California. First European to land on CA coast. Just got here-need to learn more. Nature and defense. The heart of the PACIFIC.  Thank you. Historic value and education. Old culture. The great beginning of San Diego. Historic value. Excellent. Very important to preserve. Very significant. History and nature. The history. History-War. Just that it's the Southwestern ---- of the U.S. and ---- ----. It was a starting point for ---- visitor. The amazing view. Its history. Historical. Amazing views, location. Important historic place. ---- ----. Great exhibit about Cabrillo great whole movie-missing is if the Grey Whales do feed on the way S and N. Created interest in how SD was discovered. History of Tide Pool. The history with Military and history of Spanish Explorers. Engaging education ----. Historical info. I came on Thursday by myself.  It's so great I brought the family back today. Beautiful ----. Cultural and historical activities. First CA settlers. History and education. History. History. First experience and lighthouse in area. Inside exhibit great! The lighthouse, the coast. The light house, the view, wonderful place. Awesome. It is the Nat'l Park on the coast in San Diego. The history of people traveling here. To preserve our past and the history which is all too quickly forgotten, torn down and remodeled. Plymouth Rock west-this info needs wider recognition. Great for my grand daughter to hear and keep learning. It's historical, maritime and marine life significance. To commemorate the landing of Juan Cabrillo at San Diego Bay in the 1540's. First take over of Western USA."
174,Homestead NM of America,HOME,"History. Every young person should know about this country was built by hardworking farmers. It helps tell the story of how this nation was formed and who the people are. This park is VERY significant as it teaches the history of homesteading.  We learned about the Freemans as we visited this original homestead. Captures importance of Homestead Act to our history. Share info about Homestead Act and importance in history. A real view of the Homestead Act and the affects on the original inhabitants. Tells the story of the Homestead Act, I came away knowing it wasn't just an 1800's even but continued until the Mid-1900's. To commemorate the impact of the Homestead Act on our Nation. To tell the story of the Homestead Act. The value of homesteading and our history. Explains importance of homesteading in westward expansion. Communicates the work done by Homesteaders to receive their 160 acres of land and the people who are still affected by it today. History of the settlement of this land. History. Preserving history.  Family was a homesteader in NE. To continue the legacy of Homestead Act. Very significant. Homesteading/farming-fun. Everyone should go here to learn about their history. Homestead Act and living. Homestead Act living Excellent historical marker of our heritage. Westward expansion-not covered in most history texts. It reinforces the heritage and philosophy of immigration and founding values of our country. My family (both sides) homesteaded in SD.  I knew the history but this was more.  Also, records that will be digitized. Historical settlements of early pioneers. History, the settling of our country. Hands on to learn history! Access to historical records. How the homestead act affected the population of Western expansion. This tells an important part of our history. It honestly tells how we treated Native Americans, consequences of ----. To give a complete picture of the effects of Homestead Act had on all people and cultures who lived in America during those years and in the present. Very important-Reference materials, documents, impressive. Westward expansion and development of US. Who knows so much about Homestead act and it started here. Great interpretation of the impact of homesteading on the country and it's peoples! Homestead history is important to the US history. It holds ties for many American families and captures a very important time in American. To share ---- of how we became able to homestead. We need to keep as much as possible for future generations. Very important. To learn about the Homestead Act. Homesteading was a major part of our history-it's how the West was settled (Mid-West too!). It preserves the history of the homesteaders and the tall grass prairies. Preserves a key part of American history. Emphasis open homesteading as one of the early in first homestead grants didn't ---- the ---- First homestead site from 1862 and covers all the other states with homestead lands. Homesteading has been important to millions of Americans.  My ancestors homesteaded as did my living today. We feel ALL NPS sites are vital to the fabric of our great country.  This park is important to keep alive the positive aspects of immigration/Homestead Act, maybe more now than ever. BIG-first homestead in the U.S.! Land distribution and economic development. Age 15.  it does an excellent job of explaining the westward movement of America and the lives of thousands of people moving west for new opportunities. As the site of the first homestead, it signifies an important part of the selling of our nation. History captured and maintained. Homestead Act changed the nation irreversibly from a coastal population to a population across the entire land mass-creating industry and commerce opportunities.  The culture of multiple nations blended.  The park tells that story.  My family wouldn't exist ---- without the Act.  We are one of the stories. Interpret American homesteading according to U.S. Homestead Act of 1862, and show the reclamation of the land after 60 yrs. of farming it. It is nice to explore our roots and explore the history of this land-good and bad alike. This is of vital importance. To tell the truth about events that shaped our country. Very significant-gives you a feel of what it must have been like to first view this land. It is a great way to show how people lived in the past. Homesteading in the USA. Show the story of homesteaders and history of American land settlement. Nature. To learn about land ownership in U.S. Homestead Act-land for emigrants and immigrants.  Disposition of Native Americans. Captures the pioneering spirit and ""The American Dream"" that came with the ability to own land! History of homestead act and how the country developed. Homesteading is an important part of US history.  We each have an immigrant or homesteading story. Homesteading was an important act in our nations westward expansion. Homestead in Nebraska and Alaska. Teaches about an important part of America's history. Excellent history of the Westward Migration.  also excellent at describing the hardships for every one involved. Because of the importance of Homesteading in our State.  The overall history as far as the displacement of Native Indians the early downside. Homesteading opened up the West and therefore the ""rest"" of the Nation.  Also, A. Lincoln was primarily known as a war leader...but his homestead Act, the transcontinental railroad, and the ---- have all his influences to open the West. Make the public aware of our heritage and land acquisition-excellent. Explain the importance and impact of the homestead act and those who homesteaded on the growth of America. Demonstrating the value of hard work; underscoring the wisdom of  thoroughly considering a project's pros/cons. Absolutely. Trying to reestablish the natural areas and showing the history of the prairie areas. I learned so much about the Act and early America.  We abused the Indians. Beautiful, clean, friendly-staff  that teaches about the Homestead Act.  Living history! Teaches children about historical events in a fun way.  Appreciation of nature. To learn about the homestead act. Preserving a slice of history. Very important to growth of Midwest and back bone of USA. Tells the story of American westward expansion by land ownership of ordinary people. I think this park has a very high significance because of the history and the cabin. Family history-learning center.  Very important. It calls attention to the homesteaders which we were not really aware of.  So it is important plus it was REALLY interesting. Commemorating the Homestead Act and first Homestead. Commenting the Homestead Act. To give us an understanding of what homesteading truly was. Wonderful! Everyone should know about the Homestead Act but also what happened to the INDIANS!!  I'm one. It began-homesteading-really the opening of the West. Since it was over 1/2 the U.S.-that is really significant. To show the immigrants importance and contributing to America. Agricultural history. It shows the important way in which the Homestead Act affected the development of our nation from both homesteader and Native American points of view. The Homestead Act had such an incredible impact on the Western USA.  The cultural, familial, and economic development is important US history! A vital piece of evidence of how homestead developed the USA. Increase knowledge/appreciation of the pioneer spirit and our heritage. Learn about early Homesteading across America. Remember where we came from. Wonderful opportunity for younger generations to see and appreciate what their ancestors accomplished. The homesteaders that claimed the land.  Being a farmer's wife brought back memories of my parents and ancestors and what they went through. To show the importance of the Homestead Act and how it made America into what it is today. Homesteaders are a major part of US history and development of the  land of America. The history. Nebraska has first homestead in U.S..  Important to see how early homesteaders impacted growth of country. Showing our Heritage and how the West was settled. Homestead National Monument is an inspiration to today and future generations that hard work pays off and will be worth the effort. History of our nation. The nation needs to learn about the people who settled the west and the impact on the native people and ----. My Great Grandparents ""Homesteaded"" and I was very interested in the forms they filed."
175,Yosemite NP,YOSE,"Enjoying the outdoors while being close to everything an average tourist or person needs, like food, bathrooms, lodging, etc. The valley only one.  The valley has the only unique features (John Muir). HUGE!  Please remember ALL NPs are for the benefit and enjoyment of ALL people.  I see a trend in the NPS to devalue the visitor.  EVERYONE SHOULD HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO ENJOY! Freedom. Lead the world in creation of parks-so very important! The history, landscape-the protection of our parks-uniqueness. It represents the wilderness at its peak in the ""wild wide West,"" and to protect all the animals and flora around here! Very much. The geologic, plant and animal diversity and beauty.  This is such a unique place. One of the top 1-2-3 national parks.  Love it! This park is an international treasure to be enjoyed by both nationals and visitors. Protect and preserve wilderness. Nature preservation.  Education.  Recreation. For the park service to preserve this treasure for future generations. To preserve the beauty of this country and let people see how stunning our country is. Natural beauty, untouched wilderness. Natural beauty is a treasure for our nation. Extremely significant.  It is a national treasure.  So much beauty, varied landscape, and opportunities to learn our history and explore. Surreal scenery and trail condition. Natural beauty (well, as natural as possible in present time). Its sheer beauty. One of the most spectacular mountain rangers in the world and the mecca of granite big wall climbing! Natural treasure. Access to untouched nature. Beautiful landmarks, hiking, back-packing, climbing.  Keeping people outside and habitable for wild animals. Yes but needs cheaper entry. Very significant-shame new concessionaires are ruining it.  Fourth visit in 22 years and commercial facilities worst ever! It's very good ----. The beauty and freedom to enjoy it. Easy access to places average people would not be able to see otherwise. Rock formations. No idea, I ---- It's very ---- It's beauty, and protection of wildlife and nature. The park is gorgeous and allows people to experience the outdoors in an inspiring setting.  It is a source of national pride. To preserve the beauty and ecological aspects of this magnificent creation God gave this country-to learn from its growth and conditions affecting this park AND to offer convenient opportunities to share this with everyone. The open space and being with nature. National treasure.  It is beautiful. Geology in your face! Environmental monument. Huge significance.  Needs to be protected for future generations.  But ---- ---- ----.  We are blessed that shoe before us ---- and for the public. Preservation. Beauty of valley, Segura trees. Wonderful place for humanity. Beauty. Natural history, wonderful appreciation of our land. Preserving natural beauty for all. Very confusing when first arriving-could NOT find visitor center.  Staff at MAJESTIC are generally ""burnt out"" attitude and busses. The natural beauty of the country. Its beauty for all. To preserve nature and Yosemite as it is. Showcases the natural beauty of the U.S.. Keeping us connected to Mother Earth. Always love it-been coming since kid. Nature (animals, trees and mountains).  Very good and nice rangers in the visitor center. History, education. Nature. History and beauty of nature and our country. Preserve the land and protect the wildlife. Just beautiful. A beautiful par, important for our country, our roots, our future for the generations to come. Beauty and nature, and keeping animals safe on the ----.  Providing an opportunity to experience these things. Invaluable to the nation! Very nice, photo's every where.  We have to have this as a country!  It belongs to us all. Most beautiful place on earth. Untouched beauty, a prehistoric America. Conservation. History. To teach and show respect for our natural resources. Protect the diversity of animals and plants (species). For people to be able to explore great nature.  And learn about how to preserve wildlife. It is very beautiful.  Glacier had better facilities in comparison.  Hiking seems to be the #1 attraction and services cater more to hikers than campers. Yosemite is America's history. The preservation of nature. Unique natural vistas and character. Nice place for all family. ""America The Beautiful"". Preservation of nature! Natural beauty. Amazing! Protection of nature for future generations. It supports every one's right to enjoy and experience ---- beauty. Save it for our children. As an over seas visitor I think Yosemite is a beautiful place and should be managed to ---- future generations to use. It's wilderness. Tree, clean air, mountain/rock are very important to younger general to build their bending to nature. High. Absolutely. It's awesome. Preserving nature and wild areas and habitat. Unparallel beauty. This park was a refuge for native Americans, victimized by 49ers and its beauty is unmatched.  Learn from other parks and emphasize native significance. The park serve as a reminder of the majesty and complexity of nature that nation (through the people and government representing them) must preserve. More than we could imagine.  Very significant. To save for the future. Very significant. The wild life and mountains. Beautiful. It's bigness, the wildness. This place is a symbol of great American. It was awesome. Preserve nature. An area of outstanding natural beauty also known for rock climbing. Nature, beauty, Wild Animals. Outstanding National beauty and geological history. Takes many years to compromise and make decisions materialize.  Thank  you NPS's diligence. The preservation of natural wonders. Excellent vantages. More appreciation for the beauty of our nation National Pride.  Ownership in the nation. A flagship for the outdoor and adventurous opportunities in the US. This park represents the beauty, integrity and loyalty of this country. Just the beauty of the nation back in the day. Preservation of the past. Education, appreciation of nature. Represents the way this country was when it was founded.  Preserves its natural state. We come and hike trails every year since 1985 Yosemite Park is just the most beautiful park for hikers! One of the most beautiful places to visit in the US. Need to see more distance to destination signs on road and walk trails. Outstanding natural beauty. Preservation, locations, education. Extraordinary example of a preserved natural ecosystem with unique and untouched natural resources. One of the most beautiful places in the world.  Home to various animals and habitat that need to be protected for future generations. It is managed for all to enjoy, and not let go to the crazy public with no restaurant ---- and pristine. The beauty and features like half done. The preservation of three amazing resources recreational ---- ---- wild life. Reminder of the vast resources we enjoy as a ----. I don't know.  Parks are a just ----. Huge.  I come every year!  A must see national treasure! The fact that it was constantly visited by American's every day. It's an American landmark, we love it here.  We ---- traveled from the U.K. Preservation of U.S.'s natural wonders for future generations globally. Awesome. The great nature.  The waterfalls.  The view from ---- point. To important for words!! Diversity of park represents diversity of country.  People exploring park will lead to harmony with nature and awareness of environmental ----. Awesome sites, great hiking/back packing, beautiful plants and animals. Enormous. Because of the wild country. Beautiful vistas, unique eco systems, nothing like the high Sierra. Beauty, things you will see no where else. Belongs to people, our job to take care of it, inspirational, iconic, beautiful, it is US memory for next generation. Very important sacred space. Unique scenery. History and heritage. Being the inspiration of National Parks throughout North America, setting a precedent for preservation and education. Beautiful and old Granite Mts. Tallest waterfall in N. America-El Captain, Mariposa Grove. Might be the most beautiful place in the US. My husband and I love Yosemite, not only because of it's natural beauty but because of the park rangers who enhance it's availability. Keeping amazing natural area open and away from development. Very important. Iconic representation of American wilderness. Represents the boundless beauty of our country. Pristine views of mountains, valleys, preservation of. Preserving land for public use for years to come. Everything-this park is magic geographically specifically so much rock climbing history lives in the granite walls. The granite walls/climbing and John Muir Trail/----! The area is just beautiful, protecting it from too much commercialization and its wonderful to share with many generations. Extremely significant. I agree. Yosemite is a crown jewel and spectacular beauty, important water shed, wildlife and plant habitat.  It picks so much special unique qualities in a small space and gives an example of how we might all relate to land differently outside of ----. Iconic symbol of our Western experience. Open to all. It is here for everyone to see. There's no place in the WORLD like the Sierras. Major.  This is an internationally valuable park. To secure the beauty of creation so that all can see it. Monumental natural beauty worth protecting.  Unique national treasure. It's our national heritage.  The most beautiful place in the world and available to all of us. John Muir!  We love Yosemite and Tuolumne! It's pretty. The beauty and variety of landscapes in the park and the country.  And the opportunity for Americans to visit and experience nature for themselves. The beauty, the historical value and the recreational opportunities of Yosemite's great natural beauty all signifies the value of land and nature that all Americans share. This is one of the ultimate national symbols, source of national pride. Beautiful, history, hiking, nature. The beauty of the wilderness, what it has to offer and teach.  A place where life can grow. Preservation of wild animals. The natural beauty of it. The essence of California. Huge.  This park is a symbol of what's right and grand about our country. Keeping some wild lands with no commercial signs. Shows the beauty, diversity of landscape in country. Spectacular views, eclectic collection of natural sites. It's one of the most beautiful places on earth, where we learned to enjoy the trees and not cut them down, the meadows and wildlife give us a sense of wonder, and we all own it and have a stake in keeping it beautiful. This park represents the majesty and freedom upon which this country was founded. Being able to enjoy the unique outdoor beauty without fear of people building things on the area. Essential to provide wilderness experiences. Outstanding beauty. The importance of preserving nature for future generations. Great scenery and wildlife. Grandeur of rock faces, history of climbing, general preservation of outdoors. Natural beauty. One of a kind-a beautiful example of nature. View and info, history of the park and how it was formed and carried for over the years. Natural history, outdoor education, hiking opportunities, native peoples history, precedence of preservation John Muir. The beautiful scenery helps demonstrate the importance of conservation. Yosemite was one of the first places identified for conservation.  It's historical significance and the spectacular vistas make it the crown ---- of NPS. Geographic grandeur. Geology is unique-natural environment. The preservation of the beauty nature has to offer."
176,Marsh-Billings-Rockefeller NHP,MABI,"To preserve one of the birth places of conservationism.  Very important! First American park which shows nature preservation and link to early settlers. Preservation of historical homes, along with the stories of their owners informs us, gives us continuity with our shared past and makes our nation's history come alive. Reminds us not only of the importance of conservation, but the role of Vermonters in conservation. Wonderful hiking through hardwood forest, significant contribution to maintaining, explaining and improving farming. Beauty, serenity, natural environment. Preservation of the land and it's eco systems Beautiful grounds. People of wealth gave back to the US. It is a representation of what the beautiful geography that the U.S. has to offer. Emphasis on ecology and environment and the importance of human stewardship. It's not only a history lesson about stewardship and conservation, but also a good example of donated properties. Being conservator of the land and things too!  Great movie most informative. I'm very impressed by our guide and preservation of everything. It tells a useful story of Americans giving back in the service to our country. The conservation movement foundations the conservation of the farm and property. Celebration of preservation. Continue to tell the story and instill the legacy of steward shop by memorating the Marsh, Billings and Rockefeller families. Great info lovely trails. It represents how humans can help nature to restore balance and undo some of the damage we do. Record/model of conservation in US. The story (history) of conservation across 3 families and the natural beauty. An excellent review of social and ecological responsibility and vision. Conservation, ---- Ecological model for local economic development, man and nature. Fabulous for Vermont and the East Coast. Fabulous from historical perspective.  Thank you. It's relationship to Vermont and the ""movers and shakers"" of the time to have the foresight to preserve and conserve. Saving our world! Conservation. I like that this park is dedicated to conservation.  The grounds are beautiful. History of owners.  Firsts related to conservation. The history and conservation of the land. Conserving nature. First conservationists, taking care of our environment and land.  The journey of the property. It should be importance of the emerging conservation movement in this country. Wonderful orientation to conservation history. Conservation education. Conservation! Historic, conservation. Preservation of leading conservationist Sell bottles of water. Teaching about conservation and the history of conservation.  It motivated me to be more engaged with this important work. Very. Without our Environment there is ---- ----. To provide Chinese service. Beautiful area which we should preserve and share. Natural preservation land conservation. The beginning of ideas and practices of American conservation, from early 19th C. to present-what we've learned and are leaning. Promotes conservation.  Interesting house tour and farm.  Very clean. Home of 3 families who were lenders in the conservation movement as it evolved from the Mid 1800's to today. The historical background and connection of the marsh, billings-Rockefellers to show value of commitment to conservation. Excellent park, extremely important for fostering stewardship in an age of climate change. Focus on stewardship! Highlights conservation management.  Need to use GIS to assist on paths and trails! Historical buildings and the facts about them and there preservation. Preservation of an era-conservation education. Preservation of the nation's history and its physical beauty.  Without the parks America loses its soul. History, conservation keeping as much as possible pristine.  Well to do people need to help the parks keep reasonable rates. Preserves development of activities during this time period.  Fantastic, thanks to Rockefellers for preservation upgrades. Sustainability, balance of resources. This Park is significant to Vermont and the Nation because it practices and demonstrates conservation. Emphasizes the commitment to preserving our nation's incredible natural resources and the foresight of early settlers in the preservation. The significance of the park was the contribution made to the conservation movement by three famous owners of the house. Northeast conservation. National parks improve the quality of the areas around them and provide a basis for everyone to learn more about the environment and our amazing natural reason. Focus on conservation. History of conservation.  Legacy of these three families was extremely interesting! The Park honors the environmental work my Marsh."
177,Glacier Bay NP & Pres,GLBA,"Documenting the origin of glaciers, encompasses the national park spirit of preservation and respect for nature. Teaching about biodiversity, learning about glaciology, preserving natural habitats. This park is a national treasure! Many people don't have any idea what a glacier is.  Kids especially need to know that this exists and will as long as the US Govt. keeps it special. This was wonderful.  Thank you. Ecological significance. Preserve the land emerging from the ice.  Wilderness.  No RV park to add traffic, pollution and noise to this community. Wilderness is very important for maintaining a healthy view of our natural resources. Biodiversity; geological significance, Native history. The preservation of wildlife and glaciers.  History and informational and educational programs. Unspoiled glacial and natural beauty. Preserve natural beauty. Has to be very best preserved natural area.  Highly significant to preserve completely natural areas. The Glaciers and wild berries. Unique pristine habitat. Preservation of a unique and spectacular natural area. Preserve glacier as pristine. Protection of wildlife and glaciers.  so amazingly beautiful here. Wildlife, pristine forest of natural areas. Meaning of the history, studying our ecosystems and influences of global climate change. Preserve wilderness area with glacier. The expanse and variety of wilderness and educational exhibits/talks. Wilderness. It's the essence of wilderness and a glacier landscape that can't be seen else where in the U.S. Came on Wilderness Adventurer.  Beautiful walk-too bad we didn't see Moose or Bears but only here for short time. Preserve/protect this fantastic, unique environment. Of all the National Parks I've visited this is the most pristine.  It is of National significance to keep it that way. Glaciers. Extremely significant-the understanding of the ---- People and glacier retreat-it is unique! Top ten of NP's. Very ----! Keeping wilderness areas as wilderness for future generations to enjoy. A true pristine wilderness experience and exposure to an every changing landscape attributed to glaciers. Extremely significant to study and preserve the glaciers. Glacier activity is amazing and awe inspiring.  Reminds me how small I am-my problems, any time of ---- ----.  Glaciers are so powerful, slow moving and huge!  Wow! Preservation of an apparently inevitable disappearance of a truly unique ecosystem and glacier wilderness. Protecting wildlife, exposing public to glaciers, educating about wilderness, protecting wilderness. To preserve the natural beauty for my generation, and generations to come and explore/experience. A complete ecosystem. Open opportunities for visitors to learn and experience the climate, culture and habit we know and ---- and environment connection. The preservation of wildlife and the Park's dedication to everything in it.  The water is clean the Rangers are nice. To preserve the area for future generations. Glaciers-a way to preserve the beauty for future generations. The marine life glaciers, how succession works the mountains and beauty of God's creation! Protect land and species for generations to enjoy. It is enormous, and valuable for animal and environmental studies and is a beautiful legacy of pristine wilderness for future generations. Very significant for its demonstration of the effects of climate change and the ----, majestic beauty of the parks John Muir and others helped create. Continuous wilderness-keep it ----. This park's national significance is how America should look. It inspires everyone to love the preserved beauty of what is left untouched. Preserve pristine environment as a model for future development. Untouched scenic beauty, wild life, education opportunities for scientists to study plan regeneration. Pristine natural world and the glaciers. Bay wildlife, various landscapes unique geology. Gateway to Glacier Bay area.  Preserve this ---- it is unique. The environment here is unique within the U.S. (and west of the world).  It's ---- maintain areas such as those ---- of ---- ---- ---- their support. Preservation of wild life. Preserve the glaciers ---- and ----. Natural scenery and ---- and wild life. International significance: habitat of protected wildlife, great scenery. Preserved wild life, remote and isolated. To maintain habitat in it's current configuration.  To keep the impact on the park at it's current level. Preserving an area of pristine wilderness. As the last frontier, this area must be preserved for future generations to enjoy. Wildlife and able to get away from more pollution. Important for preservation of nature and culture of this place.  But where are the bears? Conservation through education and visual appreciation. Glaciers. Grandeur of America and it's wild life. Perfect information about the animals and glacial development. Price less beauty. The presence of nation in such a remote place. The significance is international in it's research and attempt to help the decline of species. Amazing glaciers, wildlife habitat (land and marine), geology, landscape, all incredible-nothing like it in the rest of the U.S. Great education, family BONDING my son even enjoyed it-without internet! History, nature and preservation. Preservation of pristine nature. Saving nature while making it available to visitors. The glaciers and the wilderness. The significance of this park is that it allows people to learn that there is and still needs to be land set aside as designated the ""wilderness"".  Untouched by man. To show the beauty of nature. Vast wilderness.  No roads. Post-glaciation epoch roughly corresponds to Am. history-way of looking at eco-historical change.  View of adaptation to climate change. Observation, monitoring, learning about glaciers and ALL LIFE associated with/impacted by the advance, retreat of glaciers. It cannot be overstated.  Fantastic resource have been to many national parks.  This is on par with the Grand Canyon for variety, spectacular vistas and nothing else like it.  On par with our hike to the bottom of the Grand Canyon. Protect the animals and pristine environment, the ocean and bay. Crucial!  Learning about the importance of wilderness esp. glaciers, sea life. I was awed and completely bowled over.  I went on the boat cruise, it was fabulous. The current regime of Federal land management is blatantly unconstitutional per Article 1, Section 8, Clause 17 and the Tenth Amendment. It's awesome. How Backcourntry use, beauty, wildlife-whales, porpoise, otters, bears, kayaking, value. John Muir and Kim Heakox!  And of course beautiful sights and incredible wildlife. So, David Cannamore's writings about Glacier Bay and more will have national significance.  Overall, this place is so amazing. Glacier and it's effects. It is a place of quiet reflection for all to enjoy. Thank God this place is being preserved for future generations.  It is beautiful.  It needs to be protected. Glorious nature. We hope our children and their children and all future generations will be able to enjoy this amazing place, very important. Amazing wild lands and animals. History culturally environmentally of a part of the US and our globe. Mass wilderness, this is the best park in the system, well cared for by everyone. Protecting the beautiful purity from the otherwise resource driven economic destruction. The geographic flora, fauna diversity. Evidence of climate change.  Natural beauty. It is home to so much natural beauty and wildlife, untouched nature. Makes me proud to be an American. Stunning natural setting with amazing history and ongoing research.  Wildlife protection. The grandeur and newness in the earth's geologic history.  The marine wildlife.  Pristine and natural surroundings. It was ""wild"". As a U.K citizen, I would say that the international significance is that it demonstrates that the USA is committed to conservation. The new ecosystem, the tide water glaciers and the wildlife provide amazing ---- and research opportunities. Enormous. The glaciers and wildlife were magnificent. Unique glacier geological and ecosystem. History of glacier. Spectacular landscape, wildlife, scale. Conservation! Preserve a natural treasure not only for this nation, but for everybody. Confirms the beauty of Alaska. Learning about nature and history.  Wild animals in protected setting.  Boating. Snow exhibit a work of art!  Outstanding! Wildlife, beauty of glaciers. It is so untouched and quiet, with glaciers still visible and wildlife abundant.  I learned a lot from ranger programs in lodge and on boat."
178,Pipestone NM,PIPE,"Keeping a promise to the people who first discovered and loved the area AND our own spiritual renewal being in nature. Cultural significance to the indigenous people of this country. Protection and interpretation of a major historic and archeological site-huge cultural significance for nation. Respect for native American heritage and the values the peace pipe and role pipes have plays in that. To allow our native Americans to continue to carry on tradition therefore continuing teaching for generations. Native American history and natural beauty of the park. To preserve the past is always significant. To show all of us the diversity of our early inhabitants. Pipestone quarry. It's connection with culture, faith and history of Native people and documentation of contact and prairie habitat. Spiritual area due to unique geology which created pipestone. The religious aspect to the Indian people. Cultural and heritage site. Major component of Lakota history. The Native American connection, past and present is of great significance and the educational displays and signage are first rate. To show and improve understanding of Native Americans and to protect their cultural beliefs. How important it is to a lot of people. I think the terrain is very interesting. This park is so sacred to our history as a country and before-significance to the earth.  The energy here is so positive and I can't wait to visit many more times. Spiritual and religious place for Native Americans. I think the water sources in this Park are AMAZING! Historical significance due to utilization by many Native Tribes, establishing an important link to the history of the United States. Very educational. Very significant considering it is a wonderful way to learn about different tribes and how they use the land! 0 Education #1 opportunity for sales (support of current craft workers, artisans. LOVED IT. Understanding the sacred meaning of this place. Red Stone. The history of the Pipestone to the Native Americans. The natural history.  Peace that is still here. Native American Heritage, and the significance of it and America! Historical. Preservation and empowerment of indigenous people and culture. Preservation of history and appreciation for the natural world. Teach the cultural significance of the Pipe to the Indigenous People. Historical value and preservation of Spiritual Customs. Educational. A center point of Native American culture. A must see for any one who wants to learn more about American Indians. A way to preserve Native American history and provide a setting for Natives to practice their beliefs. Beautiful and simple. Indian History and Traditions-Beliefs. It keeps alive a very important part of our American Story. Maintaining our Native America Culture. Native American history, culture, and art needs to be preserved.  It's also sacred ground. Original people, Prairie, Waterfall. The importance of a natural resource (Pipestone) to the Native Americans. The overall importance of the Pipestone to may Tribe's Cultures.  We have seen Pipestones in museums as far West as Oregon. To teach the significance of the land here and Pitchstone of Native American's and learn more respect for their culture. Native American History. EXCELLENT! Maintain the Native American Heritage! This Park has great significance. Wee need to cherish our past, not forget it or throw it away. With open mind you can walk this Park and feel the reverence come over you.  History, education. Make non-Native Americans aware of the honor and beauty of the culture! Personally a way of life for native people. Pipestone historic and current use and cultural value. Education ---- Native American culture/influence of settlers, gov't. Preserves the heritage of it's people. To memorize the Native American's life and the value of nature. I am really upset by the short ---- given to 1958 Yankton treaty for ownership and the light treatment given by the theft. Preservation of Native American history. The maintaining of the heritage of the Native American culture. American Indian history. History, heritage, cultural and beauty. Our past before we were a nation and the people who lived here and their cultures. Native American heritage. American history sacred. That we finally kept a promise to the Native American people about something of great importance to them. Preserving Native American cultures. Friendly. Preserving the First Nation's religious and cultural heritage. Being the primary source of pipe stone for centuries, the spiritual significance for Native Americans, and the nationwide distribution of the stone. To preserve what is the Indians' heritage. It is an integral part of American heritage. It's good. It maintains the use of the pipe stone quarries for Native American use. Informing non-native visitors about native culture. Heritage of native people of the nation. Rare park that shows the history of the American Indians. Very valuable. Allowing the Native Americans culture and skills to continue and to provide past, present and future generations access to this heritage. Preservation of Native American culture. Preserve the past! Preservation and opportunity to learn about Native American history which in ---- history. Thank you! To understand that Native American Indians have been first on this continent, and how bad they got treated by white man! Extremely important for American history. The relationship between the Indians nations are the rest of the U.S.  The history of the site. Native heritage missing-sweetgrass and tobacco smudge ----. Very informative of Indian heritage. GREAT. The place of ancestors that lived here. it's native history. To protect this saved place. Indian heritage-values. The store. American history. Keeping Indian traditions alive, learning. Very important to all of us, especially for Europeans. Paying honor to the Native American traditions. Tending to and sharing an important North American geological and spiritual site and tradition of stone quarrying and carving. History. Shows the religious significance of the pipe. To honor our original Americans. To me, the government should recognize who the land really belonged too.  Not Uncle Sam. It's good to know this place is still reserved for Native Americans to quarry. Native American culture and natural history. The amazing ---- is a geologic occurrence that is rare (geologically) and ---- should be protected from commercial exploration. Traditional source of pipestone for Native Americans-a sacred site for them. To preserve the Native American Indians culture and heritage and educate the public on this topic. History of the pipestone. First settlers, Indian history, nature. Preserves native American history in a natural, non commercial setting. The Native American culture and the Pipestone rock and geology of the area. To learn about native Americans! Native Americans heritage and geologic preservation. Sacred historic site of Native Americans, continued modern significance. To help us remember that we all need sacred places that are peaceful and heeling. Native history getting a better knowledge of native people. This is a sacred site to the Native people of MN, one of the few remaining unspoiled sites. Teach about the customs of Native Americans and about the unique geology of the area. The Native American religious value. Native Americans considered Pipestone sacred so this park explains and explains why (and to whom). It shows us something about the Native American culture.  Very important. This was very worth it. A spiritual place for native Americans. Shows spiritual side of Indian culture. Liberty. Sacred native American site.  Important for all to understand culture. Very important to preserve our history. Native American cultural heritage.  Geology.  Botany. Native heritage. The park has stone. Preserves Indian culture. Very significant and important (and I am not Native Am).  Would like to see museum address its importance. Meaningful for remembering Native American history and culture. A place where Indians could make pipes. Awesome historic and cultural experience. History of Native Americans.  Connection to present day life of Nat. Amer.  Amazing geology.  Location in the U.S. is significant. The culture of the Native Americans that lived in this area. To preserve and understand the culture of the Native Americans in this area. History. I appreciate the focus on Native American history and current culture. History-especially Native American history. It's historic value. Quite significant. Heritage, culture, history-nature/natural resources. It reflects a source of building materials in early days and Indian history. It's an important part of the nation history. Recognizing an element of our Native American culture that most people are unaware of. Showing more about Indians/culture. Taught me a lot about Native Americans. The historical heritage of all Americans are important. The importance of the history of Sioux and other Native Americans in our country and the preservation of the Pipestone Quarry. To preserve sacred Indian ground. To preserve the tradition and history of the Native American people. To understand the culture and history of the native Indians and the usual ---- of the peoples by Europeans the thief. Great to see the Native American quarry use. Native Americans lifestyle and skills. We need this history-our history."
179,John Muir NHS,JOMU,"Educate young people about efforts of John Muir and others to protect some of the wildest places for future generations. Great insight into John Muir's journey into ---- conservation of National Parks. This is the home of the father of National Parks and learned a lot about conservation. John Muir was one of the founding fathers of our national parks, certainly of Yosemite NP-hooray. John Muir so important to our conservation movement. Great historical significance, but also a model to others for conservation activism. Without John Muir the National Park system might not exist.  This is NPS ground zero. Home of the grandfather of the Nat'l Park system. Where the words that helped create the system/protect this land was written! For people to learn about ---- and his ---- work. It's great! John ---- Legacy. Very significant! John Muir's house. In honor of the ""father of the National Parks Service"". Importance of remembering John Muir. Very significant. He is the single most important person in the creation of the National Park system. Very significant-John Muir NHS. John Muir was the father of parks system.  His home and history deserves to be preserved. To show the past. Huge-John Muir father of conservation movement. Historical home of significance. History of ---- in the military and the things people did for the war effort! History of John Muir. To preserve nature and celebrate John Muir's contribution to the natural world and our National Parks. To see where the man who helped create the park system lived and learn more about his life. John Muir ""father"" of the NPS. Great historical value, insight into John Muirs passing. The preservation of history and nature. Historic value and remembering a very important man. Represents what one person can do if they try. Preservation of historical site.  Education. Celebrating one of our country's greatest conservationists. To educate and enjoy. Much-without Muir and Teddy where would be be?  We might not have Yosemite. It's a great historical and horticultural heritage site. Home of John Muir-one of the greatest Americans (and Scouts). Environmental preservation. John Muir. The person who helped create the national parks! Remind younger generations of the importance of nature and the impact it has on our life.  We can all do something."
180,Cedar Breaks NM,CEBR,"History, ----, ----. Availability to all. Very great from my Norwegian point of view. The landscape and wild flowers and wildlife. Serene beauty, geology expression. It shows the beauty of the country. Yes. Great experience. Excellent geological ---- and ---- wilderness. Landscape preserved. Spectacular Alice Bryce, and yet happily without the crowds. Unique geographical ----! Long lasting heritage. Treasurers of the developing of earth. Natural beauty. A smaller gem in this Utah parks=views, wild flowers, geology. Awesome and inspirational ""---- break"". Geologic formations, wild flower filled meadows. It is a wonderful reproduction of the ---- that is ACCESSIBLE to all. Scenery, geology, wild flowers, Bristle Cove Pine. Unusual ---- seen. Maintaining it's beauty for our posterity. Preservative of ----. To see the beauty. Wilderness ---- ---- ----. Big cliffs, flowers, remoteness. Preserve our natural history. Very beautiful.  Need to maintain. The natural beauty. An important geological part of Colorado ---- in addition to the five ---- national parks. Beauty that should be available to all! Natural rock formations that exist nowhere else. Very beautiful! Land preservation and conservation for public to enjoy for generations. Protect natural treasures and educate the public. Unique beauty. Very important to our country. Gives a great ---- Americas beauty. It's uniqueness ---- ---- ---- has land preservation. The amazing landscape! Natural beauty. Outdoor signs are always valuable. Reducing of developed areas, allowing open space. Park is very beautiful. Historical. Remind us of the natural beauty of this earth. Beauty of America and all nature gives to the people who inhabit it's land. Needs ---- ---- ---- treasure for ---- ----. Outstanding. Magnificent ----, geologically important. Maintain natural beauty of the area. Beautiful. Different and beautiful and shows the progress of nature and God's creations. Vastness, variety of landscape-so different from E. coast. Geological. Beautiful and one ---- Preserve habitat ---- beautiful ---- Great and ---- Beautiful views.  Sandstone Cliffs.  Wildlife. The combination of wild flowers and canyons is unparalleled! Grandeur of the West and open space. Very significant! Beauty. Important to preserve this ---- beautiful, unique places. Amazing views...---- many visitors. Natural beauty and value. Natural beauty geological history. Just the natural beauty. It's beautiful and should be kept that way. The amazing cliffs. To see the different landscape formations. Preserved beauty. Spectacular scenery not available in other parts of the country. Preserved open space. It shows how our world was a long time ago. Hiking and photography. The beauty. Appreciation of natural beauty. Awesome-you see people from all states and many nations. Geology and elevation. Beauty. Sheer beauty that needs to be protected for all to enjoy. Learning about history ---- The importance of preserving our parks for ecology and enjoyment. Very significant because of the unique make up of the rocks. Unique geology. Park has beautiful ---- Combing ---- geology with beautiful views and great people. Our natural beauty must be preserved!!! Preserving our natural beauty. Keeping natural for many generations to come. Yes it does. Geological formations, eco system-beauty. Geology evidence of ---- Seeing God's creation. The beauty and historical sites in God's country. Beautiful. Important for future generations. Looks awesome. Preservation of delicate  natural formations-history. Preservation of scenic/natural resources. Unique beauty-formation-amazing. Worth it.  Save it.  Forever. History of plants. Wonderful learning tool for everyone.  Grateful our government is here to help preserve it. To preserve the beauty in an exquisite form, that nature creates, LOVE the wildflowers too! High. Cedar break.  Lookouts, scenery and availability to enjoy outdoors, ---- access hikes and family friendly. Any nature is significant.  Preservation is necessary for life. Beautiful views, wild flowers. Geological alpine ecosystem. Land formations, plants, trees. Magnificent amphitheater views. Shear beauty, irreplaceable views. Cool rocks. Wonderful geology and natural features. Preserve the natural environment. Preserving another part of our beautiful nation amphitheater and ----!  Loved the park! Allowing people to visit nature. Opportunities for solitude. The beauty of nature! TO give people an ---- --- Alpine areas. Keep the Canyons unaffected by man. Beautiful cool Mountain area ---- sharply contrast the low altitude desert areas; beautiful rock formations similar to Bryce Canyon. Understanding Faults/Lava Flows, Bark, Beetle, etc. Beauty. Unique! The beauty and ---- ---- lava. National ---- ----. Pristine Nature. The feeling of truly seeing America the beautiful-recognizing the grandeur of our Country. Unique geography. If not ---- ---- we wouldn't have for future generations.  Fabulous idea.  Good job. Beauty, incredible geology, allowing people to explore the outdoors. Historical, nature, educational. Preservation of outstanding scenery, flora, fauna.  Public education. Preserving national resources.  We love hiking within the recreational areas. The education about the area. Individualizing-unique-beautiful-stands out. Education. Unique geological formations. The amphitheater. Unique geography. It is special.  Not like anything I've seen at these places. A symbol of our nation's emphasis on the preservation of nature, geology and education. Gorgeous scenery.  Great ranger ----, George neat. Great view!  Awesome history. To protect the scenic and cultural importance. This park is incredibly beautiful! The rare beauty of it. The beauty. Amazing. Love the formations ----. Natural beauty.  Environmental awareness. Sheer beauty and preserving it is important. Is very important for education. It's important to protect our natural environment for all to enjoy. Natural beauty, geology, astronomy. Peace, tranquility. The natural beauty being preserved for future generations. To teach the young. Because it has been PRESERVED WITHOUT commercial development and there are National Park people here to protect the beauty. Educational opportunity, enjoyment. It is natural, rage beauty that is awesome to share with the world and keep protected. Preservation of beauty and recreation opportunity. The beauty of our nation should be saved and shared with the people of the world. Very good. View. The ancient lake basin and ancient Bristlecones. Geology and ecology in ---- in ---- ecology. High!  Everyone ---- ---- beautiful. It is beautiful and is more accessible for more people. Appreciating the natural beauty and wonders of the ----. This is a place of beauty and peace that is preserved for all generations. Beautiful scenery and tranquility. The amphitheater. Geology. Preservation of national area. The beauty, geology, the outdoor experience. Beauty and wilderness. Nice view and ----. Bucket list. Spectacular view.  Highest area in Colorado plateau.  Unique vegetation. Beautiful. Geology. High altitude and maybe the cool temp during ---- ----. Super friendly and capable rangers. Share beauty, history and nature. Appreciate our natural resources. Natural beauty and habitat, open space! Beauty and wonder. Cedar protection very important. Showcase it's beauty. A big ""10"" need to preserve for future. Fantastic ---- ---- , geology, ---- ---- ---- ----.  Cool for off ---- ----. Absolutely beautiful!  Needs to be protected. Geological significance-loved the rocks.  Plus it's cool! Just beautiful needs preservation. Natural beauty, volcano. Relation to other national parks in ---- staircase.  Beautiful ---- country. Views. I've been all over the world, but there are few places as spectacular as this. It continues to support the beauty of this country. Preserve the wildness. Preserving the land and trees for the future. The Alpine arts. The beauty. We live in ---- we come here to cool off. ---- Unique and impressive scenery. The trails with awesome view of the canyon.  Love the wildflowers. Geological formation. Amazing and so happy we got to experience the beauty. ---- Geology and Botany. Beauty, conservation, ---- legacy. ---- ---- Erosion, geology."
181,Devils Tower NM,DETO,"For environment preservation and higher ---- info for present and future generations. National? USA and wrong name...---- lodge native significance-real. Unique tower. It protects a monument that ---- any other. The park preserves an opportunity to enter and ---- generation. Brings value and heritage to the US. Beauty and historical ----. Geological marvel, sacred site for Native Americans. The reason it is the 1st national monument. Devils tower. To marvel in God's creation and ---- respect for ---- culture and beliefs. It is a great way to enjoy nature. Historic Indian geology. The spiritual significance to native people ---- people who take time to. Sacred history. Awesome rock formation. Collect entrance fees. History and a good lesson/insight into Native history/tradition/culture. A sacred place and unique place. A tribute to the Native American Indians who called this home. It's unique geologically and of historic value to Native Americans. I come because of movie!  Very interesting and unique. World history. Unique western geology. The natural beauty. Indian heritage. It provides history and nature and ----. I think the national significance of this park is the Indian culture. A geological phenomenon that everyone should see. History. Easily recognizable western icon. Wonderful.  A tribute to Teddy R.. All the parks are significant and all are valuable! American Indian history.  Landform knowledge. I believe that the national significance of this park is that of our nation's roots and of its natural true beauty. It's part of the landscape.  It seems as though the far greater significance is for the Native American tribes and their voices should be part of all decisions. Preserving rare spaces. The beauty and history of our nation. Not to be used for commercial purposes and not to be exploited for money. It is first a sacred place to Native Americans.  Second, it's a one-of-a-kind colossal, geographical wonder of the natural world, thankfully set aside for all to enjoy ----. Extremely important teaching history of the area and geology. It is a representation of our countries commitment to guarding our history that includes native American history. Its contribution to American Indian culture; its spectacular scenery and the overall protection of valued land and natural monuments for us and future generations. It has spiritual significance to the native Americans.  It has geological significance because it is unique; not fully understood scientifically.  Cultural significance-close encounters. It was a marker to those heading West, which makes one reflect on the struggles of heading West. One of the most beautiful natural sights ever. Stories of the Native Americans. It is unique. American Indian respect. Cultural and historic. Beauty.  SACRED SITE. Wonderful geology!  Type example of columnar jointing at Basaltic Rocks...we love this place. Natural beauty of formations. Uniqueness. We just visited Yellowstone.  Words mentioned here were also mentioned there, magma, plumbing unit, heat. Native Americans revered it. Rock climbing. The climbing. Attractive. Respect to the native American values, beliefs and spirituality. To be viewed by all. Awesome. Beauty. Unique geological formation important heritage site for native peoples. Very educational. It represents the majesty and also shows how proud America is of it's country and heritage. Such a treasure.  So glad to see the tower in person. The uniqueness and breath taking surroundings. Very unique! National ----. Amazing beauty and wonder of nature and God's creations. It was the first national monument. Preserve history of the area. Unique. Geology and Nadine ----. Historical-preservation, connecting nature with people. Reflects the value of history and ---- ----. This is a place of beauty!  It is a place that connects people to the spiritual through something that is physical!  ---- through nature. Devil's Tower is one of God's creations that was meant to be seen by humans. Enjoyed David's tower.  Kept very nice. Native American spiritual site and geological treasure. Don't know. Geological history study in ----. Geological interest. Great legacy to our Western development and history. Remarkable natural monument. Native American heritage and culture. Indian/Native American heritage.  The park could do a better job of communicating how this area was believed sacred. Preserve the rock for future generations. The peaceful uniqueness when you get past the boulders by the columns and imagine what this landscape was like before 1492. Unique geological formation and cultural significance to both Native peoples and more recent immigrants. It was the first national monument.  Exceptionally beauty and Native American heritage. Westward expansion. Great importance to native American culture. Out of the ordinary geologic formation significance to Native American culture ----. Unique geology. Geological and historical. There is nothing in the world like Devil's Tower, it should be shared by all because of it's significance. Susan was very helpful! It's a landmark like no other. Allowing citizens to appreciate nature and history whilst being active. The national significance of the first national monument. So unique and big. The solitude of a massive rock. This place. The rock and the trails. Protecting our natural beauty. Incredible natural wonder. There aren't many in the world, site you don't see very often. To see natural wonder not available in the rest of the world. Breath-taking. Had to stop because we were close! It's an enormous work of natural art.  Everybody should see this place in his life ---- ----. Only one like it. To keep the past in great/natural position. It's unique and ---- ----. Its uniqueness and beauty, and its amazing example of a geological process. There is only one. Unique. The unique, unmistakable appearance of the tower. It (Devils Tower) is a landmark that can never be duplicated by man.  Very impressive! Fine example of Native American spiritual center and a pretty darn dramatic rock! Unique geological structure.  Holy to Native American. Devil's Tower has great significance to Native Americans and helps us remember the ---- of the land. We enjoyed seeing this majestic land form learning of the scientific formation and the spiritual influence it held for our Native Americans."
182,Catoctin Mountain Park,CATO,"Interesting history of moonshiners.  Great accessible views of the mountains with beautiful and safe trails.  Plenty of protected forest for large number of animals/wildlife. Waterfall-but now not ---- accessible. The Depression and recovery era. Its proximity to DC and use as a retreat. Preservation, ecology. Very nice area close to DC. Wildlife. Keeping a good wildlife refuge. I loved the waterfalls. All the trails were tremendous, the significant was the beauty. Proximity to Camp David?  And history of Catoctin furnace. No idea. Offers citizens access to natural beauty! Great hiking area. Unsure?  Historical reasons? It's beauty and nature. Beautiful and unique landscape and views, cool animals as well! Civil war history. Preserving environment and providing hiking/outdoor opportunities for people. Not only for the preservation of our national park but was created for a presidential ----. Beauty, education. I do not know. It's geology needs to be preserved for future generations to see and enjoy. Preserve nature. Not sure. Appreciate nature in an important historical setting.  I appreciate the hiking trails very much. Lumbering industry, frontier, Appalachian Mountains. A not so busy Park. The history, nature and proximity to DC! So lovely! Preservation. History. Camp David. Access to nature relatively close to large urban areas. Wonderful views, great escape from daily grind. Hogrock Nature Trail has no more brochures. Yes, it helps preserve nature and provides activities. Good physical exercise and educational opportunities. Gives people a chance to see plants and animals in their natural beautiful area. History of this----- (charcoal) and logging. Beautiful areas. Beautiful unspoiled wilderness with excellent quartzite formations. Camp David is here. Camp David. Great local hiking. Hiking trails/conservation. I don't know. Proximity to Camp David and ---- Rock Range. Recreation. Regardless of history of individual Parks, all National Parks together provide a natural refuge for the public. Sights, nature experience, great experience overall. Cinlia Conservation Corps. It represents the tranquility of the Nation. It's a nice place to get away to. Love it! My first visit here-very impressed-I will return. Not only the beauty but a home to many Presidents past and present. Protection of land, providing connection to nature. Thank you. The beauty of the Falls and to appreciate nature. To keep and maintain an area of nature and recreation. To understand nature and the beauty that holds. We have been coming to this Park for years.  We love this Park. The water ---- ----. Don't know. Geological formations. Related to Roosevelt. Great educational value. Amazing views, natural beauty. Awesome plus. Educational value of preserving nature. History and nature. This park has great national significance. Beauty! To enjoy nature. I don't know I sorry. I'm not aware I'll google. it. Wildlife, holds Camp David as well! Protecting nature. The continued preservation of the beauty and wilderness of our nation. Great history and natural resources. A very beautiful place to be. I'm not sure. I. 0 The natural scenery and the wildlife that keeps the ecosystem healthy. Campground. History, hiking, nature. I love this Park! To learn and experience life's naturally. Trees away from city. To preserve nature. Great place for families. Camp David. Yes I find this park significant. Outstanding natural features and history. Resource exploitation, charcoal, whiskey.  Non contact with Nature, we only protect what we love and connect with. Location of majesty of views. Great opportunity to learn about specific historical events/facts. Beauty of nature. Preserve natural resources and history of country. This park significance is good for your health and seeing nature in a great way. Lets us experience the beauty of the nation. Close to Camp David. I need to do research, but it looks interesting. Nature. Near Camp David. History of America. Natural capital, Camp David. Conservation close to Washington, DC. Preservation of geography. 0 Home to camp David. The important things were if, 1) they teach about everything, and a person should know 2) your able to see that is a extremely good and ----.  You kill an animal you should know to do them and stuff and ----. Natural preservation. Excellent example of the natural ecosystem of Western Maryland, especially for beginning hikers. Preservation of Wildlife. Camp David. The great trails and secluded areas! Significant preserved sawmill is especially nice. Beauty. Catactin Mountain Park provides excellent recreational opportunities for visitors from near and far! I don't know-Prime example of natural history of Northern MD. Camp David. Camp David. It's a beautiful area to visit, not too far from home. Visit to Cunningham Falls. Yes. Ancient geology; learning about the area and history. Keeping a connection to nature. Camp David. ---- Provides fresh air and exercise in a natural environment. Camp David is here. Not sure. Love my time spent here. My 2 days absolutely love to visit and go hiking. Protects the beauty and splendor of the outdoors from ----. Keeping and preserving nature Need some benches. We like the park and think it should be more maintained aside from national significance ---- or not. Unsure. Presidential ----. I am not from the area. Highly significant, well worth preserving. A big significance is it's proximity to a large cities: Washington, D.C. and Baltimore. 0 History of the area. Preserve nature. Provide quiet recreation. Preserve and enjoy nature. Teach people about nature and other outdoor aspects. The re-growth which started with the CCC. The parks service has done a wonderful job maintaining the part. The trail could be better marked from HQ-Wolf Rack-hard to tell. Historical area and home of camp David. I find this park significant and wonderful. It provides beautiful hikes and vistas for people in or visiting Maryland. Large, user friendly, natural habitat. Natural beauty-lovely lake and waterfalls local to DC area. A great place to go to get back to nature very clean and natural looking.  Lots of people just enjoying the outdoors."
183,Jimmy Carter NHS,JICA,"President from a small town and how the lessons learned here could be used to solve worldwide issues. Showing ---- what good humanitarian ---- can do and what working together can accomplish. Childhood importance to President Jimmy Carter. Learning more about President Carter's home town and programs. Preserves history of President Carter. Preserves history of presidential life-before and after White House.  Where you came from helps make you who you are. Education. Jimmy Carter was a wonderful president and to visit this area ---- ""bucket list"". 0 Keeping history alive in America. President history is so important. Ranger program was great here. Presidential house. Preserving the historical significance of Jimmy Carter. Jimmy Carter-relative distant.  History for homeless living near family farm. To me it's about a great man and woman of the South, and both made this country a better place. President Carter learned his values here.  It was an enduring legacy for him. History preserved of Pres. Carter and rural America-esp. prior to WWII. The 39th president of the United States. History of President Carter in office and family.  Wonderful! Easy to access, friendly personnel, very personable exhibits that are good to understand. Explain and mark history. Wonderful insight into the life and influences of the area on Mr. Carter and Mrs. Carter. To make sure everyone remembers Jimmy Carter and his contributions to state, federal government and the world. History of a president and small town. President Jimmy Carter's personal and public history. Patty had so many people and only her-she did great but was overworked. To show the impact the Carters had on the world. Showing that an American, no matter background, economic class, etc., can grow up to be president! To learn about the works of a president before and after. A wonderful history lesson. To bring about social change ---- ----. We loved learning about the life, culture, region, history, peace initiatives, plus! History. VERy interesting exhibits and FILM. It shows that an average American can become the most powerful man in the world. History of Plains in general and more importantly, Jimmy Carter the person. Documents the life of two great Americans, critical to our history. In-depth insight into the life of Jimmy.  A common man who has achieved stellar accomplishments. ""Jimmy who?""-anyone can become president! Helps us remember the history of the 39th president and what he stood for. History of a president and the era during his LIFE and presidency. History of our president should be preserved. Jimmy Carter is vital to GA history and nation's history. To help educate citizens about the importance of knowing about President Carter, which is part of our history. Well, being  born and raised in Georgia just seeing where the only president from GA was very interesting. History of our president and his home. History, presidential history. Presidential history.  Local history. To provide a historical perspective of life and times and family of Jimmy Carter, president of the United States. Historical. To maintain the history of our great country. President Carter's childhood home. This park is special because of a special president, who was and is a model of great citizenship.  We should all emulate. History of 39th president. Presidential history. The highest of national historical significance. 1. History.  2. Demonstrating helping people both here and abroad. Great knowing Pres. Carter's hometown and life, ---- esp. Rosalynn's life ---- wife. Loved it-too little time. President Carter. Wonderful history of a Pres. of the U. S., the culture, tour, ----. History of the country and passed on to future generations. Great staff.  Very welcoming and informative. History of Carter presidency and life in a small Georgia town.  Interesting display on life of Rosalyn Carter. It is a wonderful reminder of what this great man and his wife have done not only during his presidency but before and after. Jimmy Carter's history. Preserves presidential history. President from Plains, GA. Presidential and small town USA. Presidential history. This park is of great national significance of learning about Jimmy Carter. To show how a man from a small town and humble beginnings can become president. Information that leads to pride in America and its presidents. Jimmy Carter. Keep presidential history alive. Preserving presidential history. Presidential history. Presidential preservation. To value our history and the respect for our leaders. Maintains history. Very good. Recognize present ---- and reflect back on ----. To show the life of a former president. Preserve presidential history. The park serves as an international center when it comes to the political history of the country. Presidential history and accomplishments. To tell the life of Jimmy Carter and all he accomplished. Home of President Carter. This site speaks to many areas of significance and changing America through desegregation, the rise of yet another American from a rural upbringing to becoming a world leader and great humanitarian. Intersection of plans with an accomplished president and humanitarian. Thank God for this great man. History. Home of 39th president, and one of our best presidents. Learning about Carter family. Presidential history. Very important to all Americans, as here we can learn about the Carters, past and present. Brings history alive.  Very educational.  Thanks! History of President Carter's work in office and continuous international works. Presidential history and the history of a small town in the 30s. Shows and fosters respect for our history and remembrance. To tell the story of Jimmy Carter in a way that explains his philosophy and peace and concern for all humanity.  A very simple man who has done so much for so many in his life. Understanding more about President Carter. Very important. Just to be is great. Mr. Carter's home-hometown-small Southern town in the Depression. Mr. Carter. Preserving a presidential home site and lifestyle. President Carter's hometown! Presidential history. To remember history and to teach our youth of where we came from. Important for past president history. It provides insights into the influence of rural American in the history of the late 20th century world and how faith played a significant role. Very informative.  My great-granddaughter loved it.  She is learning the presidents in school. Honoring a wonderful form President and Nobel Peace prize, we must never forget him. Learn about the Carter family! Preservation of historical artifacts of President Carter and small town history. For history preservation. Showing the impact of this small Southern town on a man and woman who have accomplished so much. Marks the tradition of ordinary citizen's ability to guide the nation. The history of President Carter. Great-educational. Jimmy Carter was an important president, he and Rosalyn Carter were important humanitarians.  History should be told where it occurred. History. To give us a personal view of this great man and peacemaker.  Thank you. To honor a great man in his own hometown.  Well done. During the time of the 1960s-1970s, much was changing in this country.  This is a very important phase of freedom. Very good. History of President Jimmy Carter. Very significant. Where do I start!  I'm a big fan of environmental issues, etc. Preserving Presidential history. Historical presentation. 39th president-nice to learn more about him and 1st lady. It shows the influence of the small town on the development of the president. Young mans ride to great power. A great ---- of ---- and Carters life and legacy. Presidential history, establishes American value of opportunity for people willing to work for it. Very important. It teaches us about the ---- ---- of an presidents.  It's invaluable for it's insight into his and Roselyn's private life. Because it is so personal. Jimmy Carter humble farm boy true Christian ---- officer becomes president of U.S.  Community ---- family true American story. Presidential info. Learning more about President Carter. ---- Important history-Jimmy Carter. The history of our president and Jimmy Carter."
184,Women's Rights NHP,WORI,"I was delighted to learn about this park, for its value in educating people about women's rights, and its celebration of freedom for all. Origin of important laws and rights. It's the culminating moment that pushed the women's movement forward into history. Extremely significant!  Especially in light of the 2016 presidential election, with the first woman nominee! The birthplace of the Suffrage Movement in the U.S. for women. Women's rights are intrinsic to the promise of America.  This location helps us make that ideal real. Of the highest importance. Excellent.  Women need to know the long path that's been taken to guarantee their freedom and rights. Being a woman and seeing the beginning of where the women's rights. Very important and ---- is if Hillary Clinton becomes President! Women's rights and equality. The place is the corner stone to equality of all people!  (Ranger Brock was fabulous). Birthplace of women's rights movement. Seneca Falls-significant impact on American as well as world history! The importance to remember/came about how our freedoms and rights were obtained, and that they must never be taken for granted. This is the site where the women's movement began.  I am visiting as the first woman is being nominated to run for President representing a major political party. This park is very educational as a park of history that many know little about. Absolutely!  So important to this nation to recognize the value of the women's movement and keep it moving to total equality. Extremely significant. National treasure. Very important-voter rights.  Used in my teaching experience in 7th grade (Virginia). To demonstrate the strength and brawn of women fighting for equal rights. Women's history and lighting a fire in young women to carry on with important work! Effort to make the Nation more democratic and equal rights for all. Very.  Issues raised here are still relevant.  To say otherwise is politics. Teaching citizens about history of Women's Rights that didn't get discussed in school. The topic is so important for citizens and realization of the Declaration of Independence and the U.S. Constitution. Establishment of equal rights for women is historically significant. How far women have come. It serves to show just what can happen if you're not careful! It speaks to all that is America-our rights to freedom of assembly, speech at the American Dream embodied in the Constitution. This piece of history directly changed my life and the lives of all American women. Historical significance of Women's contribution to the Nation. It is essential to preserve the history of Civil rights Movements as they are what makes us who we are. The expansion of equality and fulfillment of National aspirations. Women's Suffrage and Rights are extremely important!  Great Visitor Center and Park. Educate every one about the Right of Woman to vote.  Awesome job! So important to know the history of our Civil Rights. Tremendous significance in women's rights, civil rights and human rights in America! In honor of women's rights. To explain the beginning of a major historical social change. Very, but not published enough for other areas to be enticed to come.  My sister from DC had to tell me about this and bring me.  I'm glad I did. Showing our children interesting and important facts about our history. Girls and women of today need a place which houses the struggles and history of what came before to appreciate what they can freely do today and into tomorrow. Recognition of women's importance to history. Essential. Women rights ---- Extremely significant-should have similar places around country. Tell the story of women-and the fact we still have lots of work to do! Women's voices highlighted! Brock, Kyle were very helpful.  As was tour guide at Stanton House. Remembering the struggle for women's rights and the role one person can ---- in change. Speaks to a crucial turning point in our nation's treatment of women and to the continued need for gender equality. Celebrate and commemorate the work of Stanton, et. al and all proceeding equal rights fighter. Did not realize park existed, but very glad I could visit with my family.  The GOAL of EQUALITY is never ending. I loved how equal rights wasn't just covered for white women, but for African, Native ----. If we fail to remember what those who came before us did to ensure the rights of women we will take them for granted and fail to work toward further progress.  The education this museum provides is vital. Right to vote for women! We need to remember our history. To illustrate the profound impact of the men and women involved in the early women's rights movements. Historic beginning of women's equality movement. To appreciate the contribution women have made-national, universal. Beginning of women's rights movement. Evidence of past injustices and the righting off them with more work to be done. Inspiration for youngsters. The long history of woman's struggle to obtain equal rights. Women's history!  ---- Extremely important. Extremely, I liked the connection to ---- and Stonewall as equal rights' sites and would like to see that more. Awareness of the continuing issues! It is extremely important. It's a gem, a treasure for people to understand a bit of women's history to vote in this country. The park affords a clear history of the movement.  There is more material than can possibly be consumed in one visit. This park is significant to the women of the WORLD as we work toward equality. To honor the fight ---- to vote. Very significant-to fill in the gaps of my knowledge of history!  Very informative.  Citizens need to know this history. Women's rights. A great monument to Civil Rights-this story needs to be told! It brings awareness to people of all gender about the women's rights movement. Loved it. Very significant as this is the major beginning of an essential social/society ""redo."" Very significant of highest ----. The meaningful contribution of the women's convention in ---- Falls and the Declaration of Sentiments.  And the ongoing fight for women's rights. Awareness of the social life in our nation at the time. Teaches how badly women were treated and why they had to fight for their rights. It is good to save for future generations. Women's rights. Significant birth place of women's rights movement. Very important. Signifies the birthplace of the women's rights movement. We are still fighting for women's rights. The history and struggle need to be learned so it's not repeated. History of important ---- movement. Awareness for all! It demonstrates how women's rights and history in the U.S. started and how far we still have to go. It's huge.  Women's rights is a big part of our country. Its contributions to equal rights for women and other marginalized people. To teach and commemorate the fight for women's rights. Women's 1st convention-freedom to vote. This park does a good job representing the significance of women's rights and the women's rights convention in 1848. The first place women began fighting for equal rights. It enshrines and educates all who visit of the courageous women and men who fought for the full liberties of women in this country. We just started our tour but our tour guide (Joan) was so enthusiastic and so informative of every detail.  She was a true professional and delegate. Women's empowerment!! Woman's rights continue to be an important part of American culture. Women's rights are human rights, part of our founding principles. To remind our young ladies what we worked so hard for. Very informational-enjoyed visit. Women's rights movement. Reminds us that our rights weren't free. Woman's rights movement then and today. Supporting, educating about and honoring woman and women's rights. Learning about history of our country helps to get current policy and change culture. Excellent to be reminded that the rights we all have, have not always been there! It is great to learn the history of women's rights. Very significant. Learn about women's rights movement.  Important role of women in history. Important to keep women's rights in everyone's learning. To continue the ----! Women's rights. Honoring the struggles for women's rights and the start of the movement here. Upholding.  STILL NEEDED equal rights/pay for ----. Women's voting rights. Every women in the U.S. should tour this!  Wonderful info and exciting now history played out for female. Educational and historical tribute to women's significance. Woman's rights. Showing the importance women have made to our world. Women are getting there. Yes. What is the national significance of 51% of the population? Very important. Equality for all! The fight for women's rights continues!  We hope children will visit here and learn of the struggle toward equality. Monumental significance.  This is my first time here, but I would highly recommend friends traveling east.  Equality rights essential for us ---- ----. This was a site of a crucial event in the women's rights movement. It is a great landmark in our struggle for equality. It provides a visual link to the past that allows one to step inside the foot print of history. As a cornerstone of women's rights, this location is significant. The beginning of equal rights for women. 0 Finally a park  that focuses on women of the country. We need to know how difficult this fight was. Women's history. TOPS. Women's right are still an issue today and with 2 daughter still an area of concern. Women's rights movement is an essential part of US history. That the first formal meeting of women began on the subject of woman's rights. Very knowledgeable employees. Women's rights. Women's Rights! Women's Rights STILL need to be  highlighted. Women's Rights and overall human rights. Beginning of Women's Rights Movement. Never forget the struggles that occurred to give us the rights we now enjoy. Don't forget or minimize the role of women who helped us get here. Most important.  There were two of us completing this. The Park gives the world the opportunity to see where significant historical events occurred. Equality for every one. I liked it! An honest, intelligent, and thoughtful view of evolution of the rights of all females. It's HISTORY! To learn-to understand-to appreciate! Very significant in Women's history. Women's Rights. Very important to publoan progress having been made in women's ---- show ---- still ---- for improvement. The start of equality. Women's equality/How important our ---- how we appreciate the work of others. Women's rights, value and importance. Very important. Women's rights. Very important history. Women's suffrage, women's history, women's rights convention. This park highlights the birth place of women's suffrage movement/women's rights. Very, very important.  We need to acknowledge the importance of women's rights. Documents the struggle of women's rights. Women's rights. Women's rights must still be pursued. Very significant. Enjoyed information about rebuilding house from laundromat. Key location in women's rights movement. History! Women's rights. I see the focus as the suffrage movement but the park manages to broaden the scope beautifully. Women's rights establishment is of great significance to girls growing up today. Historically as important as anywhere more ""major"".  I would wish for a few genuine artifacts. It has brought awareness to today's youth of the significant roles these brave women played. This park is necessary for the awakening of white men to the problems they have created for women and minorities. Very interesting, did not know the women involved until visiting here. We want future generations to remember this history. Five women's rights convention (1848). Great contribution to history told in such a creative way, great staff! Seneca Falls and the women's rights movement. This park showcases history and stories that rarely receive the attention deserved!  Very inspiring. Totally essential women's Mecca. Very established and friendly people. Women's contribution to our nation. One of the rare historical sites emphasizing women's contributions in particular. Beginnings of women's equality under the law. Women's rights. Commemorating women's rights. Woman's rights movement. Women should have equal rights! Women's rights-extremely important. To tell the story and educate young women on the significance. High. It honors women who were strong in their convictions, and worked hard for their beliefs. To educate people as to the progress and growth of those who supported women's rights in our country. Preserve nature/history. Extremely important, #1 women's rights movement park. Equal rights for all, acknowledging roles of women and minorities. Women's rights movement. Women and their contribution to this nation, yes most definitely. Amazing information about women in history and their contribution to the past, present and future. It set the stage for the 19th amendment to be passed. It signifies the national progression of the role of women in our society. Set up the 19th amendment. It documents the intersectional struggle of women's rights. Extremely high-should be more widely known. It introduces the importance of feminism. Women's rights. A great time in history and a wonderful learning experience. Equality and rights for all U.S. citizens. I think it is amazing that this era in women's history is captured and celebrated in a national park.  It's an excellent reminder of the struggle. Important events and themes. An opportunity to learn about an important part of American history. ESSENTIAL. It was amazing, very glad I came. The on going struggle for equal rights for women. This is the site of the convention on the rights of women-if anything, it needs to be bigger! Appreciation for pioneering women and recognition there is still much to do for equality. It represents the evolving women's rights movement and the symbolic win of the women's rights groups. Women's rights! Birth place of Women's Rights. Commemorates women's struggle for independence. Huge!  Thank you! Valuable reminder of how far we have come in human (""Women"") ----. The national significance of this park and the fact that early on there were brave people that fought for rights of everyone. It demonstrates the hard work and perseverance in which people used to help one equalize the women's rights. Very significant to American history. The park educates and celebrates about a significant component of civil rights advances in this country-namely, women's rights. Very important! Yes! To celebrate women's rights. Women's rights development. To improve awareness of the women's rights movement. Wonderful history and gratitude to the Suffragettes. I particularly appreciated the link in the exhibits between the women's rights movement and the later struggle for LGBT rights. Educating visitors on the history of the fight for equality, offering significant events in local history contributing to national ----. Recognizes struggle and importance of action to correct wrongs. Invaluable record of the changing role of women in American society. VERY important. Very important historical site. Honoring women's history and contributions to civil right/justice as part of US history. Tells the story of the fight for female equality. Not quite Gettysburg but up there w/the rest of the park system. People need to see the progress made in women's rights and how a few can make a difference. Shows women's history and significance to the world now. Giving women a voice and a choice. Very important. Very important.  Most folks don't know the limited placed on women in the old days.  Their rights were so limited in many ways. Helping people understand ""equality"" and that only ---- in generations past. Multiple/varied/ongoing-the consciousness around equality in all its myriad forms-very inspirational. 0 Perspective on human rights-history of nation's progress in treating all equally."
185,Fort McHenry NM & Historic Shrine,FOMC,"Last attempt by Britain to retake the Colonies and the true beginning of U.S. independence. History ----. The park was very well maintained and clean.  Very patriotic and stirring video and climax. Learning about the flag. The entire history as well as story of creation of ""Star Spangled Banner"" and the beautiful presentation. Freedom from foreign gov't. The preservation of an important fact in the war of 1812! ---- inspired national anthem. Keeping our independence; national anthem. 1812 War-""Star Spangled Banner.""  Safety of our nation. This park is spectacular.  The home of the ""Star Spangled Banner"" and a valuable historic shrine. To learn history of the flag. Our flag and our national anthem are critically important to our national identity and this park beautiful highlights and preservation. The national anthem is important to many people, so perhaps because the battle was the inspiration for the anthem, the place is significant. It signifies our National Spirit and Pride.  That we are a Country that never gives up.  Very inspiring! More Pokemon charger stations. Whole nation represented at a single place. Visited 7/22/16.  To demonstrate citizen resolve in the face of the enemy and to connect National Anthem to the bravery and resolve of citizens. It really told the history of 1812 as it related to Baltimore and the state of Maryland. It gave us an opportunity to teach our two grandsons ages 4 and 16 about the war of 1812 and the symbolism of the American flag. Historic fort in the war of 1812. Fantastic park-important history. Education of the origin of the star spangled banner and the battle which occurred. Active in all major wars beginning with 1812.  Key to our very existence as a nation as captured by the ""Star Spangled Banner."" ""Star Spangled Banner""-our wonderful flag. Birthplace of our national anthem. Much more than I knew.  Important for the survival of a young nation. Inspiration for Star Spangled Banner. Key turning point in War of 1812.  Remembering of the event and origination of Star Spangled Banner. Stopped British from destroying Baltimore.  ""Star Spangled Banner"" written. It is the home of the original Stars Angeles Banner. Key to our nations defense from the war of 1812 on through Civil War, WWI and WWII. Battle site during the war of 1812 that also inspired the song that eventually became our national anthem. First-the park and fort were the inspiration for our national anthem.  Second-we held off the invading British. Creation of the National Anthem. A quiet place for the neighbors. National Anthem. We are French and appreciate that the flags are 1/2 mast for commemorate victims in Nice. Free trade and sailors rights!  So cool! The history behind the national hype. Birth place of Star Spangled Banner. America's freedom, our national anthem, very powerful and moving. Birth place of national anthem war of 1812. Free trade and sailors rights.  Also the Star Spangled Banner. Important history that should be valued and not --- up. This is the place America won our freedom. History of our Country very important. Native significance. It shows our determination as a Nation. To learn more about the War of 1812 and see where everything took place. Very important to history!  Beautiful facility. Free trade and Sailors' rights. Plays a big part in the Independence of America from Britain. Birth place of National Anthem. Being the Battleground of one America's historic sites. Very significant. Fort Mc Henry represents the location that inspired ""The Star Spangled Banner"", our National Anthem. History. Keeps history alive about the Star Spangled Banner physical location to explore. Our National Anthem and our reminder of price paid for freedom. The last gasp of British intervention. Tradition and the commitment that those who came before us made to our Nation. It teaches people about the history of the U.S. Historical as a Fort and Star Spangled Banner. History can be used ---- ---- Patriotism. Preserving the Nations history to be learned by all ages. The Battle to win. To understand more about what our Fore Fathers went through to make this Country what it did today. Very significant. The history of the ""Star Spangled Banner"" being written and the war. The birthplace of our national anthem."
186,Washita Battlefield NHS,WABA,"It is a great tribute to show the atrocities that were committed on our Native Americans. Learning more about how white settlers destroyed the native's lives. To learn that cultural diversity is to be learned and appreciated; not wiped out! History of the settlement of the west-including atrocities committed by whites and Indians.  Lack of trust by both sides.  Intertwining of events leading to others. The effect of two different cultures colliding in warfare which has affected our nation to this day. The park is beautiful as well-maintained. It is vital to the historical timeline of this nation to preserve it. This is a great place a wonderful place to lean about the park and learn about the significance of such places. Should be mandatory for all school children to learn about conflict with nature. This park honors both cultures that met on these grounds-sacred. Very informative. History of this area and relationship between settlers and Indians; OUR history. Can't be forgotten. We really enjoyed the personal ranger program. Illustrated the truth of custer's bullying nature. In regards to how America was settled, Indian history, military, this rite ranks high in my opinion of national significance. Preserve native American history. Very high and is needed. Well I'm Indian so...I think that speaks for itself. Yes. Learning history. This was important ---- ---- . The history of Westward expansion. Battle of Washita, and it's significant events that had an instrumental impact on U.S. forces in the 1860's and the Cheyenne tribe as well. It is important part of the story of the Indian Wars, Westward expansion, and Native American history. The battlefield and the peaceful Indian getting killed. It highlights the struggles our country encountered when fulfilling the concept of manifest destiny, and it should cause visitors to question the rational used and create a humble pause to reflect. Tells the story of sacrifices made by my ancestors OII was developed.  Shows how our nation evolved. Preserves area of significant activity during the 19th century Indian wars, and involves actions of significant actor in those wars, George A. Custer. Discussion of cultural differences, reminder of more turbulent times, provide home for greater unity and peace even today. Preservation of a historical site. Treasure life.  Keep peace. Lots of history. Native history. The war on Indians and the killing of peaceful Indians. Historical significance and the lessons learned from mistakes. Promotes understanding of Indians at that time. Highlights Native American heritage and the progression of European American expansion west; clash of Native/European cultures; how NOT to be repeating ourselves. It shaped history because of the unjustified killing of Native Americans. Educational-GOOD. Custer and Native Americans battle history. Rich in Indian Wars history. Another site commemorating the Indian wars.  I did not realize how connected Washita is with Land Creek.  All part of the Plains Indians. Decisive point in critical series of events in tribal loss of the Great Plains. Local history. Education of Indian Wars.  Found film to be a bit ( a lot!) one-sided, tilted to American Indian experience, not to Sheridan, Custer and pioneer world views.  (of that era). Every US citizen should learn about the tragedy of the Washita.  They should also be aware that the Cheyenne people are alive today and can teach us all about the spirit of survival in a cruel world. History that may be forgotten. Shows the price (in indigenous lives) of the Anglo colonization of the Western US.  The good, the bad and the ugly! The park attempts to show how ""white"" national expansion attempted to exterminate the original Americans and take what they wanted by force. The Washita Battlefield was a sad and tragic part of US history.  It is important to understand what occurred here and also to better appreciate our native American culture. Shows important even in history of area. It reminds us that the struggle for power has been, and will always be demonstrating to people, culture, and place.  Harmony eludes us.  Oppression preserves. This place marks the beginning of the end of the nomadic way of life for the Cheyenne and Arapaho in particular and the American Indians. In honor of black kettle and his people who died here. To remember cultures and conflict. This is a very significant sight which opens the door to a very sad time in history.  It was fascinating. This park helps educate us about the tragedies befallen by the Cheyenne and other Native peoples. Educational.  Historic, lessons on past failures. Historical. The role of the Indian and U.S. troops in the western expansion. High it's always valuable to have sites such as this preserved to enforce the factual nature of history. To remember what happened here. The history of our nation.  The sadness of the native Americans. This park demonstrates the difficult period of the Plains Indians wars in a well balanced manner. This is an incredible historic site and tells a sad story in this nation's history.  It was very moving and I'm really glad I had the chance to visit. I think it is both an acknowledgement of an event and an attempt to heal a wound our nation continues to suffer from. Many more of our people need to know about this place and it's history.  The tragedy should not be repeated. Retains memory of plans Indians and their interaction with US expansion.  Greatly appreciated! To learn about what ignorance of some means for others."
187,Sequoia & Kings Canyon NP,SEKI,"The trees are a national treasure! The largest trees are absolutely significant and should be preserved. Family fun. Without the parks we would be soulless people only concerned with self. Valuable for generations to come. The rare natural environment supporting these trees. Beautifully maintained, retaining walls are gorgeous. Natural beauty. To preserve the trees, animals and wildlife.  Great place for families to explore nature. It's rich history and conservation. It has a significance for me. ---- to money. So it is a treasure. Preserving nature so all could admire it's beauty. It is an amazing canyon with views to rival Yosemite, but without the crowds! Nature. Because it is ""for"" the people, not just the elite. The vastness of the preserved wilderness and therefore, the difficulty for the majority of visits to get to the ---- It will stay an open wilderness ----. The history behind John Murr and the discovery of this park. The national significance of this park is very high. ---- important that it is preserved for future generations. It represents this nations natural beauty and history. I love this park for it's wild beauty! Please don't commercialize it like Yosemite. The views and the ---- of this park in California Nature a ---- people ---- together. National/treasure for future generations. Incredible beauty and singular sights. Draws a lot of different cultures to come together and enjoy God's creation. Super ----. Very majestic canyon. Preservation of natural features of great importance, eg. giant sequoia. Preservation and foresight for the world. To share with all it's beauty. Not sure exactly the significance of the park nationally. Geology and ---- wrote a cool book about this area. It holds a great variety of animals that must be kept safe. Natural beauty and unique mountainous vistas. Preserving nature. Preserving nature for years to come enjoying the beauty of God's creation. Untouched landscape. The trees, views! To preserve nature for the future through natural wild life river experience. It has preserved the naturalness of this area without overcommercializing.  I love Kings Canyon! Scenic beauty. The beauty of the Kings River and ---- to it's preservation. A place to escape. I feel like the parks are a national treasure-a place where we can go and escape the hustle, bustle and noise of city life and try to find peace. It's unadulterated beauty. Right at the gap-Kings Canyon. History of nature-preserved for future generations. Provides access to well preserved wilderness. To preserve for further generations the unique surroundings of the Sequoia trees and canyons. Extraordinarily beautiful natural environment. Beautiful! Preservation of national lands to conserve the natural resources.  To give everyone the opportunity to experience nature and wilderness. One of the earliest parks established and helped pave the way for more national parks. Beautiful and magnificent example of California! A beautiful place to hang out with friends and family.  A beautiful place to enjoy nature and learn to respect and protect. Public access and protection of wilderness. The beauty of the land! Nature, scenery, and peaceful, quiet, very easy-going. The significance of this park is in the nature and all its animals. SHARED unspoiled land that is preserved for generations. It shows the beauty of this nation. It's very deep and beautiful canyon formed by glaciers. To keep the natural beauty intact for all to enjoy. To have a place for the people to go and relax and be proud to take part in. To preserve for all to enjoy. Its beautiful vistas and wilderness. Keeping the beauty of American from commercialization. The natural beauty; the meadow; the sound of running river; the pinks, tranquility and birds and sometimes a bear.  All this with wonderfully kept campsite-thank you. The sightseeing attractions, outdoor experience overall, and hiking are what make this park significant. Beauty of all natural resources, trees, birds, running waters. Great River and Rocky Cliffs and mountain. We hope this park reminds people of the beauty of this nation, gets people off their cell phones and enjoy relationships.  Lots of people don't know about these campgrounds. To preserve beautiful places, so many can come and enjoy it. Preserve it's unique environment. Preservation of wild life and wild lands. God's creation for us to enjoy. To preserve the natural state of the area, a wild river, first come, first serve.  Coming since 1974. Nature history and ease of access. Appreciation of nature, being a responsible camper, encouraging the family unit through recreation, history. Beautiful, scenery, fun things to do.  Family friendly. Conserves a national treasure and great for family. Awesome. Family and nature. History, education, appreciation. It shows what a wonderful place nature can be and how important it is to preserve natural wonders:  mountains, rivers, plants and animals. Natural beauty. Preserve nature. There are no reservations required, first come first served is a wonderful thing, especially for families planning vacations late. Couple thousand year old trees.  Largest by most on earth.  How could this not be significant. Beauty, ----, respect, knowledge. You can enjoy the full ---- of nature. Love the nature and preservation of the camping ground. The trees cure real big and the canyons real deep. Clean restrooms. Our countries beauty preserved. I would say to teach us about our natural history, the importance of natural spaces for ---- plants, and animals, and how things are connected. Sequoias. The value of nature. It's great. Very good. The preservation of wild life and the wilderness. To preserve the wildlife and nature of the trees, animals. Preserving wilderness areas; conservation. To preserve nature in as natural a state as possible for as long as possible. Great nature value! Preservation of nation's beautiful and rare resources like the sequoia's, national historical monuments, pride in and respect for our history and a means to protect it for our future. It is rich in our history and the importance of conservation.  The wisdom learned about the necessity of fire is universal. Protector and caretaker of the giant forest-Redwood trees. The wildlife that shows people how amazing Mother Nature is. Sequoias and canyon uniqueness. Preserving the beauty of the canyon for generations to come.  My son is the 4th generation to camp at Sheep Creek. Preservation. Huge trees. Summarizes America in general.  Everything is just bigger.  Like nature on steroids. The park has valuable treasures of ancient, large tress that can't be found anywhere else in the world. To protect and provide education of the Sequoias. Unique trees. 0 Alpine forest and glacier formation giant sequoias, native American heritage. Understand the history of the area and value to our nation. Preservation of natural resources. It is a fantastic tribute to the natural building of our nation. Places like these contribute to our national identity and need to be preserved and enjoyed. ---- their beauty, the preservation of 1,000 ---- of years of growth for future. Save in the environment. Unique to the world. A view of nature at it's best! It's the only place to see trees this wide, one of most beautiful ----. Preservation, preservation, preservation. Learn about great American Native. Loved it. Keep land set aside for presentation of what our nation is made of. National parks are a national treasure! Our strength as a nation!! To preserve areas like this. The beautiful Sequoia Trees and scenery.  Thanks. Unique eco system and trees. Getting our family outdoors. It is a great preservation of our National natural treasures.  These trees grow no where else. Learn more about nature and kind of trees. The giant Sequoia trees and the Black Bears. Very much. Very important to protect land and resources. Protecting rare nature. Brevity of human life! The love for nature. To preserve this beautiful Forest for generations to come.  I feel the NPS does a great job!  Thank you. Shows what America has to offer. Important tourist attraction particularly for overseas visitors like ---- from the UK. Sherman tree. Important for the country. History and preserving the Sequoias for generations to come.  We need nature to stay decent humans. For people of this nation to be stewards of these trees. Natural heritage and beauty of the land. Segnoia tree could even replace the eagle for long lasting significance. Be proud about the amazing trees. The significance of the park to represent the beauty of the Sequoia trees. It stands for what was here before us and that not everything will be paved over. Wilderness and isolation.  Opportunity. 1st rate-better than the eagle. A place to ---- America. All National Parks are ESSENTIAL. Unique landscape and natural ----.  Please continue to preserve! Preserving our nature.  These trees are magnificent. Tremendous views and wildlife.  Priceless. To preserve for future generations. Shrine to memorialize our war dead. That we need to enjoy, cherish, and preserve the things on this earth that were there before us. Very significant. It's awe-inspiring and it's kind of nice that future generations will be inspired as well. Lots of animals, big trees, and great camping spot. Allowed everyone to see the beauty of this part of USA. Beauty. Preservation and education. Preservation of all the trees and wildlife. The importance of keeping its living species for future generations. The trees are a natural treasure. Conservation and preserving history. We, as visitors to the USA, are able to enjoy the forethought and dedication of those who founded the National Parks alongside you all as friends. Preservation of the greatest trees on earth. The magnitude of trees and animals that inhabit this area. Our national Christmas tree-we had our wedding here 30 yrs ago and love it. Shows that we care about the environment and want to protect the national park. Well conservation of trails, trees. Preservation of the redwood trees and being able to see them. Can't be put into words or limited to only this nation. Giant Sequoias. The park stands for how tall and proud America is and how great a nation we can continue. Teaching people about nature. To learn and respect our forests. Of great importance for our future. Very important. Trees. Shows our nation in it's natural state (mostly) undisturbed by humans. To preserve and protect a natural treasure for future generations. God's work thanks that our nation has the Sequoias.  May our help and nation help save this park. Brings people from all over. Love it! The nature/outdoors. To see these trees.  Great once in a life time.  I loved it. Significant. Access to undeveloped nature for the citizens. Sequoia trees preservation.  Nature trails/hiking. Difficult question. Extraordinary trees, land, animals. Beautiful.  Happy to have it. Very significant. It is an area of unfathomable beauty unmatched any where. The trees. Beautiful forest, keeping these beautiful trees safe and protected so we can all come and see and enjoy them. Would value very important for unique opportunities to view item of this region. Very good park. Trees, special habitat. Wonderful park.  So glad they removed many buildings.  Great significance. The trees and history, back country. God's creation-awesome. The trees. No place like it on earth. The trees and how they grow and history. Extremely important (one of a kind). It is very important to preserve and share a organic space of history, culture and experience. Natural beauty. Where is the native peoples story? Culture, history, nature, viewing God's amazing creation. Preservation of natural history. Giant Sequoia's are a unique gift to CA, we need to preserve and protect them. Exploration of a nation and jump in scientific discovery. To see the wonderful trees.  The giant forest is so amazing. It is a cultural, historical and environmental site of irreplaceable value.  It is what makes America great! It preserves the natural history of this land. Being able to visit giant Sequoia's up close is the national significance, but I think quiet and forested spaces are my favorite. Preserve our history and nature for next generation. The geology. The big trees! An awesome experience. Conservation of the natural habitats and trees.  Especially the redwoods.  I love the walking trails. Natural history and resources that need to be preserved. One of the few places in the country where natures beauty is truly on display. Preservation. Preservation. To inform, educate and to provide visitors to wonderful experiences. To preserve the natural history of this country for as long as possible. The only place to see the giant trees, people from all over the world come to visit. Preserving natural setting near large cities, preserving Sequoias and other parts of mountain landscape. History and life before us. Amazing opportunity to visit an area of extreme significance.  ---- trees that are jaw dropping."
188,Wolf Trap NP for the Performing Arts,WOTR,"It's wonderful to have an outdoor cultural center like Wolf Trap where visitors and children can enjoy cultural activities in a less formal setting. It's a place to enjoy performances with the amenities of a park-best of both worlds! Provides multiple diverse activities that celebrate promote the pertaining arts.  For all ages! Now it's money-make more money-$4.50 for water?  Really! Among the best outdoor ---- arts venue in the nation. It is a public arts venue on a gorgeous piece of land. Every large U.S. City needs a facility like Wolf Trap. Wolf Trap is the only national park dedicated to the performing arts-very special venue. It is a great blend of nature and the arts right outside of a major city. ---- It's important to preserve green space and habitats near the capital, and wonderful to designate such a space for the arts. Providing Art at reasonable cost to kids.  Took my son 30 yrs. ago.  Always enjoyed the Park. The Arts in nature. Secure Green Space-we love being in nature.  This Park has a garden, trees and horse poop-we love it! Bring low-cost theatre and music to many generations of kids-we have been coming since I was a kid in the 70's. Provides high quality events at an affordable price.  A beautiful setting. A cultural arts center for education and entertainment. Very important! A beautiful way to engage the arts in a natural setting.  Have NEVER had a bad experience at Wolf Trap. I love the theater in the woods.  What a treasure! Performing Arts are crucial.  A venue like Wolf Trap makes them accessible to the masses in the most enjoyable way! Because Wolf Trap is the only NP that is a center for the performing arts. The high quality of the performances and educational opportunities in a beautiful setting. To Unite nature with people who live in a fast pace world. To provide a beautiful setting to enjoy the arts for all ages. Brings culture events to the Wash. D.C. metro area. It affords visitors the opportunity to enjoy great shows year-round in a beautiful setting.  Lucky to live nearby! A beautiful retreat right outside the nations capital.  Great music too! Enjoy theater while exploring nature. Music and art are as important as the natural surroundings Wolf Trap enjoys. World class entertainment in a beautiful, scenic, clean environment. Being the ONLY national park for the performing arts, its value is significant-it's unique ticket costs are reasonable, the range of performing artists is vast, the location is great and the parking is free!  What more could anyone want? Protect land from the over-development of northern VA. Supports the performing arts. Commitment to the arts/entertainment in natural setting. I don't know. Celebrating the performing arts. Only performing arts venue. Great venue to see the arts! Outstanding performing arts-wide variety! Great way to promote and support the arts. Shows DC/capital supports arts. Arts and very significant. Wolf Trap is the only national park for the performing arts. Convenience to people visiting DC, their cultural needs besides museums, etc. Where the Nat'l Capitol Area can go to enjoy the arts. Wonderful venue-nature and wildlife experience. Cultural activities. It is the only Park FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, as far as I know. I don't know. Not sure. The one place in the national park inventory dedicated to cultural events such as live performance music, dance and learning."
189,Little River Canyon NPres,LIRI,"Nature education, conservation recreation. Natural beauty preserved. God's beauty being shared and taken care of. Amazing introduction to locals, national and international visitors to this area teach us what is available it's history, etc. Beauty and windscape. For me the significance, is the beauty of the two falls, the river, rock formations, and trails.  There were 6 of us age 13 to 56.  They loved it. One of seven best swimming holes is US (travel channel) and unspoiled natural beauty. The accessibility to people of all abilities to explore a fresh water river and its unique geology. The Canyon cut by the river in this type of soil in this part of the Country. Preserving nature for the future and educating people about the history and future possibilities. Preservation of land and availability for public to enjoy.  Beautiful Alabama. Rock canyons, waterfalls and natural hiking/climbing trails give significant outdoor recreational activities for kids of any age. To protect the flora and fauna of our beautiful nation.  We need to have and maintain the wild places. To preserve a vision of history for continuing generations. Longest canyon east of Rocky Mtn. Culture, natural state of our country before habitated by US. The eco system as well as the recreational system.  We like to think we designate all our tax dollars to the NPS! It's beauty and wonder, not to mention the history surrounding it. Perfect spot in the LRC area. Hands on evidence of our history, geology, and cultural evaluation! Absolutely, such a wonderful place-loved the Scenic Drive.  You did a great job. I was impressed with the helpfulness of the volunteers.  The video showed the diversity of Alabama and the many opportunities this site offered. For people to learn about (the history of area) and (recreational opportunities), environmental importance. It's one of the highest running rivers in the US. I can only speak of the natural beauty and recreation, but this park is beautifully unique and a testament to God's beauty. Recreational opportunities. Preservation, scenery, education. It's easy access, but relatively unspoiled or commercialized.  I hope it doesn't turn into a South Rim of the Grand Canyon, like Disney World. Trail of tears, canyon. Recreation, natural splendor, river on op of a mountain. It enhances it. Preservation of public spaces. Great for family outings. The beauty and nature of the canyon and being able to preserve it. State and Federal partnership. The beautiful landscape.  A great escape with friendly help. Wide diversity of natural resources. Nature. To preserve the natural landscape of the canyon. Preserving and beautifying nature. Preservation-history and nature. Canyon. Conservation of the unique eco system of Little River Canyon and preservation of this land for the public. Hiking.  Pictures. Scenery, culture, historical value, recreational value. This is a natural wonder that should be preserved for ALL. Scenic beauty, resources and recreation. Preservation of many species of wildlife and natural beauty. It shows creation, history, science rolled into one area. Diversity of geology and wildlife. Natural resources .  Recreational.  Beautiful views.  History. Natural resources. Recreation, history of Trail of Tears.  Great teaching for students. Preserving God's creation. Waterfall. Beautiful park and something you wouldn't see every day. Beautiful, original, education, historical. Beauty, archeological services, RECREATION. The waterfalls. Beauty, recreation, national reserve. This place has a wide variety of plants and animals.  The canyon and trails were breathtaking! Canyon coming to life for those who will never get to Arizona to see Grand Canyon. Places like this are more difficult to form and maintain-keep places like this functioning. Place of natural beauty and enjoyment. To maintain the natural resources and beauty for generations to enjoy."
190,Assateague Island NS,ASIS,"The ecosystem. Wildlife reservation-keep commercial activities off the area. Undeveloped, natural setting.  Uncommercialized. The Island and ponies are important to the history of Maryland's Shore-it is important to preserve and maintain that history for future generations. Preservation of nature-beautiful birds, chincoteague horses. The ponies, the birds, the light house, every day there is something new to learn. Beach wildlife. The beauty of the park. The preservation of the wetlands and the care of its wildlife. The natural preservation of the island and wildlife upon it. See note. Nature and wildlife-preserve current beach and protect waterway between Chinco and Assat for wildlife. Pristine beaches with no building or development. Decent place to surf near DMV.  Too much money to enter park. Preserve sea shores for future American's. I love this park, it is one of a kind. That we are able to come observe nature at its best, especially beach, horses, lighthouse, visitor center great for ----. Connection of peoples to the ocean/bay eco systems.  Preservation of barrier islands. Unique barrier island.  Wildlife habitat. Sea shore and wild life preserve. Allows use of a protected resource classic/---- along the shore and ocean. Preserve unique ---- and ecosystems. Yes.  The park is of national significance.  We purchased a book about how and when it became an island separated by OC. Preservation of wild horses.  Enjoy the fresh air from the ocean. Seeing the wildlife and showing them to children. You can camp and swim anywhere but here you camp with the wildlife. Preserving public access to our phone line, preserving precious and fragile central areas. The preservation of the horses and the bird and marine life.  Also the ecological importance of the tidal marshes. Seeing how beautiful life is on the seashore of MD and VA. Very important our children need experiences like these. It's natural beauty and natural habitat for the wild ponies and generations to come.  The beach is significantly fun! The Park helps to maintain some of the natural history of this area, and helps preserve the area for wildlife. Teaches us about the importance of the natural resources of the Chesapeake Bay area. To preserve Atlantic barrier islands in their natural state. To encourage outdoor activities and preservation of natural ---- ----. Saving the ---- next moquitos. Home to many species of birds home to the ponies. Beautiful area with no commercial facilities/shops. Seeing and experiencing the beach in a beautiful natural setting without buildings. Natural, unspoiled beauty. The beauty of the natural resources and the amazingly diverse ---- for all make this park special and significant to our nation. Preservation and protection of natural resources.  Education and recreation in a non commercial environment. This park provides unfettered access to natural sea shore, it is important to conserve and protect coastal environments from excessive development in advance of climate change. Pristine coastal area-totally undeveloped. Wild ponies and wildlife. Preserving wildlife and beach/clean. Keeping the nature of the area. Close to Wallens Launch Center. Keeps history alive for future generations. The ponies and the wildlife. Barrier ----, wild ponies, beach!  Natural wildlife. Preserving a barrier island in as close to its natural establishment as possible and still allow the population access. Preservation of the coastal animal habitats.  This is a wonderful park! The preservation of nature and to provide information to visitors. Protection of shoreline.  Public access to both ocean front and bay.  Historic horses. Wildlife preservation, promote co-existence of humans and nature. Marsh preservation. Marsh preservation, undeveloped protected beaches. A wonderful natural refuge.  A rarity on the Eastern Shore! One of the few places wild horses roam, one of the lighthouses that helped boats stay safe ""even in today's technology."" It is important to maintain and preserve a natural seashore area for everyone and for future generations. Nature and public beach restoration. To preserve wildlife and nature, and allow people to enjoy its beauty. Making sure wildlife is safe. I have been visiting this park for 40 years-always a great experience. All of the wildlife. Where people can enjoy a quiet clean beach.  Money should be put to make beach bigger and restore it from previous storms. The Seashore as it used to be preserved for now and generations to come.  Also for the ponies and wildlife. So much nature to observe. Good example of co-existence of nature and recreational activities of the public. The wild horses, bird viewing, trails and beach make this park especially unique and valuable. Unspoiled seashore, love the barrier island that works like a barrier island ought to. Keeping a beach at the East coast natural. To have citizen enjoy appreciate and understand the value of wild life, natural resources and the ocean. The beach and it ---- expectations with the exception of not enough life guards. Love the natural beach and surrounding area, please keep it as is.  (And Ponies of course). Barrier Islands are so fragile.  We need to protect them and appreciate their beauty. This park shows significance for my children of what the refugee park should remain as for the future but also a beach non-commerce."
191,Harry S. Truman NHS,HSTR,"History of a president. It is key in highlighting the true humble nature and principles of one of the greatest Presidents in American history.  It makes me proud to be a Missourian. Home of a historically significant President; good picture of Presidential home life. Understand life and values of Truman. Harry Truman a tribute to one of the best presidents! Thanks! We recognize the ---- of our country no matter the political ---- it is inspirational that ----. Learning about our history is important, we should learn from the past and preserve our heritage. This man, Truman, had a great influence on our country and the world.  He made decisions with great courage to make  our country stronger. President Truman. Remembering the legacy of Pres. Truman. It was so amazing and our guide was very knowledgeable. Was very impressed with the knowledge of the guide in the president's home. Was very informative of president's life at home and the obstacles he overcame.  Guide was very informed. Was very interesting of the things that President Truman accomplished. Because of President Truman and his importance to the world. So worth the drive.  Guide was awesome. Home of president. History of era. It was good to see that it has been kept so we feel like we could see what it was like. It helped me remember the importance of the Truman Presidency. It helped me to learn why certain decisions were made. Harry S Truman. The home of Harry Truman, President of the U.S.  How he lived before and after and his accomplishments-a mentor and role model ----. Former president's home. History. Our history-something we should not forget! With honest hard work, who knows:  you could become president like H.S.T.. The Truman NHS gives a personal glimpse into the life and timer of significance world leader. Such history must be preserved for future generations. 0 A president's home. To enable the public to be educated on historical events. Home of President Trumen. I know very little about President Truman and now I know a lot. Knowledge is power. It is the home of one of our nation's presidents. Historical relevance. It is the home of one of our smartest presidents.  It's important that Americans know how he lived his life and why. History. Our 33rd's President's home is very important for our country to maintain. The 33rd President of the United States. Keeping history alive and for education of future generations. Thoroughly explained the significance of one of our most important presidents. Very informative.  Good very knowledgeable. To see Truman's part in an important part of U.S. history and to understand why his popularity waned during Korean conflict. It is an incredible significance because it is a former U.S. president's home and museum.  It is an important part of our nation's history. Truman was an exceptional man and president.  These are things we all need to be reminded of! Presidential history, museum and library are an essential part of our heritage.  Enjoyed the visit very much. Harry Truman house.  I have a better understanding of his personal life as well as his role as President during tumultuous times. To show the life of Truman and how his life at home effected his Presidency. Education of public as to what every day life was like for the Truman's before and after his Presidency. It's the history of a great president! Historical.  Home of a president of his spouse before and after he served in that office. Maintenance of history. Highly significant!  Harry Truman was an important president. Truman was outstanding in decision making. Serves as a great educator for all of the past! Every visit is a learning experience.  Truman's legacy is important to our Nation and preserves our National identity. Learning about the 32nd President of the U.S. and his family. I have visited Truman's home and library several times over the last six years each time I've learned new things-especially enjoy Ranger talk of the home, basement exhibits at library. The Presidency of Truman, and his personal life. Truman was a great President. Learning about presidential history reminds me why I am an American citizen and the importance of voting. Harry S Truman. Keeping our history alive for future generations. Excellent. The park helps to ---- the fact that anyone can become Pres. of U.S.  It also shows us the the actions and decisions made by the Pres. act only after the U.S.  But also the entire world.  The visitor center is old and musty. Truman was outstanding in decision making. Home of Harry Truman, 33rd President ---- man of the people. Preserving an important part of our history and providing education. That ""Harry"" was a common man in many ways, with the passion for learning and using what he learn through life to try and make the right decisions. Home of the President of the U.S. The home of a U.S. President all original, artifacts. To remember the life and legacy of President Truman. History of our President. Harry Truman's legacy and WWII time period and connections to current military. It keeps the history and teaches the history during the years Truman was President.  This is important for our Nation's history. Very significant in 20th century history. Presidential home in rural America. Really enjoyed our ranger. Harry. S. Truman home. A president's home has a great historical importance. Tell the staff of Harry S. Trumen's life in Independence before, during, and after his presidency, the impact it had. To learn just how valuable Harry Truman's values were to our Country. Unique and past Pres-relevant to history."
192,Natchez NHP & Related Areas,NATC,"History of slave trade.  Information on a free Blackman during slavery. Relaxation. How this site developed as a result of historical events. It's significance in the historical context. It is important to know your history so you can repeat the good things and not repeat the bad things.  Things aren't always as cut and dried as there (?) ---- seem. History. Historical significance. Shows history of families and area, important to our next generation. Very important and quite significant! To educate people about historic events/place. Historical-helps let us know our own history. The history of ---- because I did not know something's. It is very important that we learn and pass on this history!  Especially when we consider slavery. History of Natchez was interesting learned a few things about steam boats that I did not know. Pete was the best guide that we had in all the tours of the homes great tour guide. Excellent.  Thank you! To teach. ---- ---- ---- ----! History preserved. History. It was one of the most informed tour I have ever been on I have been to 272 so far.  Thank you. Perfect time piece, not to forget. Shows life of the 1% in ---- south. To ---- the significance of wealth in the delta. To learn about our history in order to not repeat our history. To teach our heritage and history. Very significant for history!! Great history!  Mia was an excellent guide she was friendly and spoke clearly and gave a fun tour. It gives a fantastic picture of a pre-civil war life and after. History. Revealing little know and important history. Very interesting. Historical relevance and educational importance-paints a picture of the grey moral ---- and complex daily interactment of Southern society. To show what life was like in antebellum South for both the very wealthy and free blacks. Great significance from a heritage and historical standpoint. Speaks to live of free blacks and the intermingling of ---- owner and slave. Very important story of freed slaves, social racial, economic role of people ---- impact our nat'l history! FABULOUS! Very good. Everyone needs to know this history as this is such a ---- to get their attention-love it! Shows alternative to ---- life. Vicki was very helpful. ---- A key to our past and culture. The life story of a free black man in the South. Historical significance. Seeing the view of ---- during this time. History. The history of William Johnson. Documenting lives of ---- persons of color. Maintain a link to our history. Life and times of freed man is important to know. Especially how that rights were still ----. People need to know ---- owned slaves. Much more complicated situation than we're taught. A ---- into the life of a unique individual-a ---- Everyone should know our history. We can learn so much from the past. Learning our history and culture. To teach people about freedom, the intelligence of an extraordinary black man and that all blacks should have been free ----. Natchez history and burger significance to US history. Preservation of history. Education for all U.S. citizens. For history of Natchez. I think it is informative and of value. I think it's very important to be able to learn the history of slavery and what became of it. To inform people about our states history. Very interesting info. Cotton, Slavery, Civil War. Very significant for the history of a free black man and family during Antebellum days. History of Slavery, Free people of colors in Antebellum South. Very significant-tells an important story. History. Great historical value. Natchez -historic. It shows how people lived. It tells a story that is little known, but important for all of us to know.  Very grateful that you have this museum. So much history! This Park is a historical and botanical treasure.  Best use of our tax dollars ever. Tells a little know aspect of black life in MS. Understanding about free black people. It's history, architecture. To remind us for ever of what went before. This time period of the area is very important to know about this house interprets that well. Educate the public as to how plantations played a part in our country's history gave an historical home and grounds. Learning more about freed persons of color is very important for all of us. Very important historical significance. It tells a story that is generally unknown and very surprising. A hugely important glimpse in the life of free persons of color. American history 1700-1900. Life in 1800-1850's. Southern history esp. personal diary. Understanding African-American history and the role of slavery in past, present and future. Historical preservation. Important. Ascension of humble beginnings. Learning about the past. The history of Natchez-particularly William Johnson. To remind people what it was like for other people of colors. We toured the house.  Loved the period furniture, wall paper, culture, family, etc.  Beautiful home! Very good. Analysis of the lives of free people of color in the U.S. Black history view point. History preservation. The William Johnson house is very interesting as it shows how a free men of color was able to live and the restrictions placed on him. Yes definitely.  And new information! To preserve the history and culture of the Antebellum south, including slavery. Educate people on the history of the area. Amazing to read about a freed slave on Mississippi ---- the ---- ---- beautiful museum. Highlights life and times of an emancipated black man and his extra ordinary family. Historical. It gives a unique perspective on the slave era.  All of the other houses to tour in town were ---- by whites. Keep info alive, great info. Life faced by free black during the Civil War. Significant American history. This is very important. Very historical. William Johnson home and Melrose A. B. home also the beautiful flowers, and great personalities of the staff at Melrose. Yes, great historical value. Yes. African American history needs as much representation as possible in all its aspects. Tells story of free person of color in antebellum South-a story not known by most people. Unknown history by most people. Amazing-The National Park Service is a treasure. Wonderful-good information.  Very Nice.  B'Ham Alabama. Represents a time era. The house. Getting to learn about America's past. It keeps history of the Civil War going. To understand the architecture of that time. Remembering ---- ---- houses. It was seeing building from back in the day, and what the life was like. History of social south for free African Americans. It is an historical pre civil house with great architecture. I do not have one. It is important for the history of the civil war. It was significant because that's where it actually was.  Greek revival. This park was very interesting.  I learned a lot from the outdoor sightseeing. To show what it was like back then. I liked it a lot showing people, the people and places that the men fought for to get where we are today. Greek revival architecture. It's a nice house. A great war happened there. Because of the civil war. Life in Mississippi River towns in 1800s. Rich history of the past when cotton and slavery were topics of the day.  A lively port city, with steamboat history.  I love it! Shows a way of life and family in the past and the difference between the rich and poor.  Also how slaves were necessary for this lifestyle. Excellent portrayal of Antebellum life. Educates the public on OUR history. Reflection of the culture of important time in history. Age of the area. Keeping history alive. Amazing reminder of Antebellum culture.  Should be required viewing for students. Historical significance/education, beauty perspective. Very interesting period information. Appreciation of Melrose and history. To show what was wealth back before the Civil War. It shows the life style of the elite and serve as a reminder of the gap in wealth. To get people to understand how things went back in those days and other important events and people. Seeing how the wealthy and their slaves lived in the 1800's. This was perfect to see how well to do people lived during the Antebellum Era. Make people aware of how life was lived 170 years ago. This Park is a historic masterpiece.  Never had to ever had such a rich history come alive. To give people an idea of what life was like.  It allows a sense of new perspective and gratitude towards it. History of slaves and wealthy at that time. To learn about the culture and history of the Southern family culture and slaves. Appreciation and awareness of Melrose history (gained from our knowledgeable Tour Guide, Barney). I can't really say I would have been that interested if it wasn't for my Tour Guide. It is SO historically important.  I was left in awe throughout the entire tour. That our history may all be different but we all played a part. This Park shows how Southern States showed opulence during the Antibellum Period, and shows a hard lesson how badly slaves were mistreated. To show slave labor and wealthy white living during this era. To teach the public bout the history of the Slave Trade and housing in Natchez. To remind us that the important points of history are not done justice in a text book, but is better seen in person."
193,Rocky Mountain NP,ROMO,"The beauty of the raw landscape and the animals that live in it. The beauty. I'm Canadian, so I don't have a good answer. The parks provide an excellent opportunity to learn about the value of conservation. Happy 100th anniversary. Preservation of resources. Beauty of the U.S. Seeing nature untouched. The alpine tundra and variety of ecosystems. Preservation of natural resources. Bringing people to nature. Great. Animals. Homestead, push west, native American, geological wonder. Very significant.  It's great to show young children nature and not video games. The mountains! To protect-preserve what our country was at it's creation. Our beautiful natural history, our incredible treasure.  God's beautiful creation. The beauty and continental divide. Preserving the rocky mountains for future generations. Conservation. To maintain the natural beauty and history of America. Everyone should have an opportunity to see nature. It is my goal to visit as many of our national treasures as I can this park is amazing. Beautiful trails and alpine tundra. Natural wonders. Protection of wild life and wilderness against human encroachment. Protection. The peacefulness it offers. Very important! 101 yrs old amazing rockies. Water fall, preservation of the land. Nice easy trail for families. Excellent. Beauty-waterfall, ---- mountains, rocks wildlife-observations of habitats. The nature-loving and friendly rangers (and of course the easily experienced wildlife and gorgeous ---- tree nature). The natural beauty of this great nation how it was, is, and should always be. Nice trail to remind us of the beauty of us. Conserving the nature, wildlife, and family time. Preservation of the Rocky mtn ecosystem. Keeping U.S. natural wonders available for generations to come. Expose my family to the way Colorado should be. It is a wonderful part of our history. We are very fortunate it has been preserved and protected. Nature. Sights. Natural beauty-amazing. Longest U.S. Mountain Range, beginning of CO River, varied eco systems, range of wildlife. Great value of landscape. Gods wonder/peaceful. Preserving wildlife and allowing people a safe way to view the meadows and beauty of the Falls. So important for people to get away from all the craziness in world and see what life is really about. Beautiful scenery. Its unique beauty. Nature at its best. This is the epitome of the best this Country has to offer. Allow people to experience nature at it's best. Feeling nature the way it was made. It is a treasure! Natural history. America the beautiful. Beautiful. 0 Continental divide and Rocky Mountains are ---- geographical landmarks that define this ---- of the country. It is a ""green space"" in a place where there are fewer available with each year.  It protects at least four valuable eco systems and I don't know how many ----. Very nice!  Beautiful. Wonderful to get people outdoors and experience the beauty of nature. To preserve the beauty of the mountains and wildlife so that all Americans can enjoy. Absolutely necessary to have ""untouched"" places for people to experience and for protection of wild animals. Natural beauty not found in any place like it on the USA and perhaps the earth. It remains a majestic showplace of the spectacular rockies. It has beauty and environment for plants and animals that cannot be found elsewhere. It provides undeveloped natural environment and beauty. Government dollars keep this amazing park operating.  It is a great investment of those dollars. Highest mountains, good history and magnificent views. Spectacular ----. Very significant. It's significant to the countries preservation of wild places. Opportunity to experience nature, peace and tranquility. Feeling like ---- ---- ----/ Wilderness experience, views. Wildlife, exposure to ----. The beautiful landscape and lessons that nature give us. To preserve the natural beauty of areas of the US where people love to visit.  So our future generations can experience this beauty. To preserve native plant ---- and fragile ecosystems for education to general public about the ---- ----. The beauty of our country. Preserving our heritage and protecting native plants, water and wildlife. Views. The opportunity for future generations to enjoy nature. Extremely important. History, geography, conservation. It is a treasure of history, wilderness and a reminder of importance of preservation. National security, security in the preservation of fundamental natural resources such as clean air, water and land. The conservation and preservation of the land.  A set aside from development. We enjoy getting to a place where seeing animals, etc is special. To preserve the mountains terrain and animal life for all of us to enjoy. Preserving natures beauty for generations to come.  The Jr. Ranger program here is excellent. Preserving the beauty of ---- ---- from the destruction of human enterprise. Very important park. Preservation of wild life habitat. It is very important. Of multi generational importance. Opportunity to see mountains, ---- lake, waterfalls, animals, safe place for animals. To preserve the beauty of the natural resource. It's America's great idea!  And we all own it!  Thanks for protecting it. Unique mountain scenes ----. 1. Natural beauty.  2. Understand of ---- ---- ---- ---- ----/ Beauty of wilderness area. Majestic of the mountains, variety of environmental and diversity within a relatively small ---- area. Preservation, wild life. Preserving the majesty of the Rocky Mountain, living with the continental divide. Scenery. To showcase the beauty of nature and a clean environment!  To allow people to see tundra flowers. It's beauty. Critical, helps define who we are a nation. Rocky Mountains. The best of all of Colorado.  Junior Ranger Program is awesome. Beautiful mountains! Preserving the environment and habitats that are unique in ----. Tundra, ---- ---- ----. Continental divide. Very accessible, lots of geological history. Environmental example and education and preservation. Provides education and opportunities to be a part of nature and appreciate this beautiful world we live in. The majesty and power of the rocky mtns. Preservation of wildlife. I have been coming here ---- was 15 and ---- Preserving land and ----. A preservation of resources for generations and a way to appreciate the wild. It's very majestic and beautiful how could someone not like Colorado. Preservation of and access to spectacular mountains, lakes, trails and wildlife. Beautiful vistas, outdoor activity, natural beauty and importance of preserving. Preservation. It's unique ecology, on the eastern edge of the American rock is.  The ---- of RMNP, also provides access to visitor from the city. Protecting alpine and ---- environments, providing ---- country hiking and camping. Mountain, streams, wild life. World class mountain environment with easy access. Among the first of our great parks.  By preserving wilderness, the park shows how important nature is to human life. Showing the natural beauty of this nation. Protecting the natural beauty. It signifies the beauty of ----. To preserve wildlife, nature and beauty. Preserve a place far citizens to enjoy the beauty of America and preserve for generations. Indigenous wildlife, pine trees, rivers, lakes of high peaks. Mountain vistas and ecology. Remarkable beauty that is a ---- to the ---- diversity and experiences ----. The ability of the public to see ---- nature. Protect, preserve nature. Unbelievable vistas, mountains, trails, waterfalls, ---- and floral. Accessibility to the mountains of ---- unique biospheres and wildlife-history of human ---- in region. Enjoy nature! Significance is extremely high to preserve the natural beauty. Great family vacation spot. The mountain and overall beauty, and wildlife. Wilderness preservation. Tremendous. Enhances the ---- of life for all who partake-something we ---- our young ones. Freedom to live life the way God intended ----.  No tech! Its pristine beauty.  Preservation of natural resource. Preservation of ----. The very best part of U.S. government. The westward expansion of the nation's borders. Scenic/animals/----/mountains. What comes to mind when ---- Colorado. Wild things in trail and rocks with snow. That is a wildlife experience-not the ""do as I want"" experience some visitors think. IE: Tubing in a trout stream. Big mountains! ---- that are unique. Celebrates geological and animal diversity. Having the tundra presented in ---- easily accessible to the public is noteworthy in and of itself, but the sheer size and ---- is great. Preservation of wilderness ---- beauty ----. Keeping the outdoors for all Americans. Wilderness salitude majestic gardens of the glorious CO mtns. ---- our ----. Preservation of ----. Mountains. A place for my children to ---- nature and our country. It's a shame they kept conflicted their ideas re: How to manage over the years. They devastated the ---- This park preserves the wilderness and wildlife of our great country's past. We love it here.  Our children have grown up here and we have many precious memories-thank you. Rocky Mountain ---- Preservation of nature for my children ----  ----. Beauty, education, wildlife. Everything!  I love National parks! Highly significant. Total preservation of the land and wildlife for generations past and to come. To preserve the wilderness wild life. It gives us an opportunity and spend time with/in nature that no other places does. First park people from the East encounter in the rockies. Alpine nature. Extremely important. Wildlife, conservation. Keeping land ---- ---- ---- ----. It provides a magnificent representation of God's creation and a place to be provided. Mountain eco systems and views. Preserve ---- ----. The national park idea-research to teach us. Mountains, wildlife. Preservation of the natural flora and fauna for generations to come and education. ----. Beauty, alpine ecosystems, ---- an opportunity, and adversity conservation."
194,White Sands NM,WHSA,"Part of our landscapes history. 1) The White Sands are an unusual natural phenomenon.  2) The testing sight for the atomic bomb. Unique area. Retain natural wonders. Amazing place, unique to the World. Missile testing nearby. It's the only one like it. The geological process that creates white sands is awesome. Protecting the white sands. The Geology. Uniqueness, history, beauty. Historic, ----, animals, so unique. Preserving history of the Southern Culture and crystallized Gypsum.  Preserving these items for future generations. The beauty of the sands and the nature that are being preserved for the future. It is a natural wonder. All the Gypsum in one place.  Why its here.  Why it stays.  The evolutions of the place is remarkable. Shows how diverse nature in USA. Amazing views and unique. Evolution of gypsum (sp) from glaciers, stones, lake bed, etc. White ---- a lot of ----. Beauty. Sands/range. White sand that does not stick to your skin. It's cultural relevance's. Nature and adaptation. Transfer state to state. This area is very geologically different from the surrounding area and it's also has history and significance. Trinity site. A very unique place to enjoy and learn. Preserving beauty, nurturing respect to nature. The historically value and history. It seems like one of the only places in the country that looks like this. Everyone should see White Sands. Unique land scape. It shows natural history of unique gypsum desert. I believe that because this park is one of only three places like this it is great that it is protected and will be here for generations to come. People need to be amazed at natural wonders.  They must be preserved. Maintaining and sharing a pretty unique landscape. The geological unusualness of the area. Only one place in the nation that has this unique park. It's a beautiful recreation area with great wild life. Preservation and passing on knowledge of those who came before. Gypsum dunes are totally unique. Being able to see for years to come.  Glad it was saved as a National park. Demonstrates another aspect of the tremendous geological diversity in our country. Glad it was saved. This park teaches us about what is here now (gypsum sand dunes) and how it got here.  Valuable science lessons that impact the importance of learning, taking care of what we have and insights to the future. It's history and beauty. Great beauty that was able to be seen in the state. History, beauty. Neat part of the SW. Preserving natural resources and national treasures.  Education. Missile testing for military Gypsum sounds. Unique bio and geo system. Great interpretation as to ""Why"" and ""How"". Much more interesting than I expected! Preservation of a significant geological feature. Teaches about evolution, life, respect of nature, the value of life. Natural resource and learn about eco system of desert. The sand dunes, unique geology. Beautiful place. Vast amount of gypsum in one location. Visitors ---- ---- nature. White Sands Missile Range.  The public area shows the wonderful adaptation of wild life and botanical. Unusual landscape, excellent recreational opportunity. Historical and cultural relevance. Provides outdoor recreation in a unique setting. Excellent example of diversity and magnificence of New Mexico's geography. An extremely unusual site -a unique geological phenomenon. Uniqueness.  Beauty. The history-it was just AMAZING! It's uniqueness and spectacular beauty educational value-learning how the Sands were created.  Wildlife; and their adaptation. It's a white gypsum sand beach in the middle of the desert. Beauty, wildlife preserve, no hunting or fishing! Geological history and beauty. It's very nice.  It's very different from other places that we normally visit. Very significant-unique.  Awesome viewing!  Liked the films!  Liked the visitor center full moon event! Part of the beautiful and varied vistas we enjoy as a nation. Unique area of the U.S. that all should see. To enter the nature.  Germany, Gerd and Gertrud. Rare, unique geologic setting-warrants preservation. Very unique. The unique geology and ecology of the area. An archeological/evolutionary masterpiece. It's something different and unique to New Mexico that should be preserved. Sharing dopeness with the peeps. A unique geological landmark that offers a valuable (and beautiful) connection to history, both local, cultural and geological. Unique area/geography/people. Visiting with hubby. Natural beauty. Unusual undeveloped landscape and habitat. Unique natural resource/destination. To take pride in the visual aspects. Maps and guide info could have more info. Unique geological feature, should be protected.  Thanks! Sand. The white sands-none like it.  Awesome! Uniqueness. Incredible resources not available everywhere! At this park you can learn the natural history of NM and enjoy beautiful scenery. Protect white sands and animals. Its preservation. Birthplace of our space program. Preservation of a distinct habitat. Its unique white sand. Natural beauty is always significant to our nation.  All the national parks we have visited are uniquely beautiful. Shows our geologic history. The white sand and animals. The unique sands. To preserve the site and allow people to enjoy this area. The Apache Indians and their honoring of the land-reminds us that our world is important and needs our care. We need to protect our national treasures such as one of three ---- deposits in the United States. It's unique due to gypsum. The sand and the culture! There is nowhere else like it in the world. The geological and natural figures-also the historical significance of the site. Gypsum dunes-very unique. Natural beauty, stunning landscape, surreal atmosphere. Great place. A unique place to observe and experience the beauty and wonder of God's creation. It is a great place. Part of history.  Provides a historical outlook about the local environment. Preservation of natural ----. That we enjoy nature the way it is. Unique natural features, beauty and recreation. Yes. Wow! The white sand itself-where it is and how wide an area it covers. It's a rare kind of desert. To protect and to make people aware of this beautiful natural phenomenon is the significance of this park. To preserve another one of mother nature's wonders."
195,Alaska Public Lands Info Ctr - Anchorage,ANCH,"Public lands information-we are the stakeholders of this great resource, it is beneficial to know about it. Alaska is our newest frontier, with an abundance of history.  It is important to share with new generations. Acquaints visitors with culture, animals, nature, and historical events in Alaska. Easily accessible nature information housed in a Historic Building. Information about the National Park. More awareness on conservation, not only of Alaska but the planet, for our future generations. Excellent learning experience.  Caring personnel.  Great films. Information. All appropriate portions of Interior and Agricultural Departments working together. Showcasing Alaskan Frontier to visitors and Native Citizens. The animals/history of Alaska Heritage. A great source of information on Alaska. Excellent resource of information. If not for Centers like this much of history would be lost. Excellent for walking, hiking, camping, ruins.  Fishing is very poor off the banks of river creeks and sea with no parking at all.  No access. Thanks. Good introduction to wildlife. Great info and perspective on the extensive and unique Parks in Alaska. Great planning. Absolutely excellent. Alaska information-a welcome center for Alaska. Awareness of all Parks has to offer. Important for current and future generations to learn and value National Parks and Public Lands. Movies were excellent.  We stayed for four of them.  good annual exhibits. To educate individuals about Alaska and its history and its wildlife. History and knowledge. Knowledge. Nature and wildlife. Important, covers all. Great resource for Alaskan parks, sites, advise, I visit every time I'm in town. To inform visitors of the importance of the area par, its future and history.  Also of the opportunities to enjoy the area. Learning about Alaska-natives, flora, fauna. Excellent facility, very informative.  Very helpful employees and also very friendly. Teaching about American/Native culture and natural phenomena such as plate tectonics, earthquakes and ocean movement and effect on people. Keeping information about tradition alive. Information and education of the Alaska environment and parks. Educational, informative. Excellent displays on Alaska wildlife, geology, history, culture.  Excellent films on 1964 earthquake, railroad, etc.! Outdoor recreation and wildlife. Diversity of Alaskan wildlife and tundra. Information, education is the premise of progress in every society and in every family ----. To better understand and appreciate the history/significance of our nation's largest state. Does outstanding job displaying all sorts of information about Alaska's wildlife and heritage/history! Helps educate the public about Alaska's public lands and National Parks. Learning about park service, nature, natural environment conservation and negative impact on environment. Historical information and info in nature. To help the public appreciate the beauty of the Alaskan wilderness. Good overview of the national parks in Alaska. Anchorage Center-excellent assistance.  Great programs.  Live eagle, most impressive!  Many brochures.  Great bear skin ""hands on display"". This is an accessible Center for visitors as they arrive in Anchorage.  Good exhibits and programs for all ages. Very educational-wish I had more time there-next time!  Going to Brooks-love it there. Historical display and video very good. Very appealing exhibits, much information, excellent brochures. None. It gave a lot of information regarding Alaska as the best place and time to visit to see the Northern lights. It gives the govt a ---- in Anchorage.  It exposes people to facilities in Alaska. Communication and education about our national resources.  Thank you for making this facility available. To help keep God's creation the way he created it. To teach about the wild life of Alaska, as well as some history. This center provides educational awareness opportunities for Alaskan wild life. Wonderful introduction to Alaska-love the park service! How important the 50th state is to the lower 48. Very important-shows heritage informs of what should be protected. Information center, good intro. Alaska history. Wonderful reflection of Alaska's history-films very informative and fun. Very high. Very informative. To really educate on the wild life of Alaska. We loved our visit!  The parks are amazing!  Everyone at the center was very helpful. Corrects some miss information. Amazing and wonderful learning opportunity about U.S. history and geography!  Love it! Having a few native Alaskans available as employees was a plus, Thomas Norbern. Help with knowing what AR was to offer. Highlight's Alaska's wild life! Teach about wild life of Alaska. Alaska is unique and has things to offer that no other state does. The fact that it is in the heart of a major city, where most people come first to Alaska.  ---- ---- location, ---- services ----- are excellent. To share their knowledge. Very important. Help people from the US and would understand the Alaskan ""World"". Appreciate it in Anchorage.  Also saw Devali and Kinai Frances, exhibits here at this center need an update seems 1950's. Knowledge about the different regions in AK and how that plays out with the rest of the nation. All info center should be together in this federal building with good facilities and animals.  I think room enough and ---- had not asked around.  I would not be here and only in the tourist info office. Alaska is a ""park"", so very significant. Nice to be informed about the animals, parks, etc. Great way to get some educational, free fun in Anchorage. High. Education about the wild places in Alaska. History of Alaska Sport and animals. Excellent resource for Alaskan history, culture and ecosystems. Great local information. This ---- teaches history about how Alaska came to be what it is today. Educational-a great learning opportunity of what Alaska is all about-what is accessible to visitors. Shows history of Alaska. FRI with scientist very informative. It is a great resource for all ages.  Exhibits rock excellent. Outstanding. To promote and educate the beauty and history of AK. Tells about this area and what happened here back in the day. Alaska natural history, info for trip planning around this great state! Excellent information!  Awesome kid scavenger hunt. Great information for all ages. Historical and geographic information. It is your first step before you head out to all the parks.  We are leaving Monday. Show wildlife and early heritage (Alaska). The significance is big-nature preserve goes beyond national borders. This facility brings all the Alaska parks to say reach of visitors.  The displays are excellent. To continue to inform and educate the public on the importance of preservation for our land and wildlife! Central educational center to promote knowledge, awareness, conservation, etc. Education-conservation's importance, great information and knowledgeable staffing.  Wonderful visit. Great place to learn about all the parks in AK. Hugely (!) significant for this beautiful state! Provided great information and a fond welcome. We can learn a lot of Alaska's culture, wild animals and plants including Anchorage. Learning about the important things in Alaska. Perfect. To ---- knowledge regarding the lands, wildlife, and culture of Alaska. Educational and entertaining. Education. 0 Preservation of culture and natural areas.  Access to information. Interesting exhibits and films. Historical info. Provide info to visitors about Alaska's wilderness. A good resource. Very unique ----. Awareness of the value of conserving natural resources and native wildlife. This is a great place to learn about the state's history and animals.  It lets you appreciate it. Detailed info on specific areas of Alaska. Maintaining public interest and respect in public lands and wild animals. Promote conservation respect for nature/environment. Very knowledgeable, great learning center with historic significance. Many opportunities to learn in Alaska.  There is so much to know about this state.  Excellent use of federal money. To give more info about ---- and ---- history and places to go and see. 0 You learn the history and animals of this state.  This was fun for the 9 yr old, 50 something yr old, and the 70 yr old.  It was presented in an interesting way for all. TO provide an educational experience of the history and heritage of Alaska. To explain Alaska land creation importance to public and conservation, continued discussions on best use/non use. It gave us visitors to Alaska a great introduction to all the beautiful parks!  We made it to 5 of them this trip! Connecting with history. Showcasing the uniqueness of Alaska and informing the public about the rewards and risks of life in the wilderness. To educate people on wildlife and conservation and to provide written publications with this also."
196,Fort Union NM,FOUN,"National history. It shows the importance of ---- the nations history. Western most outpost for the Civil War, part of Santa Fe Trail-trading post. History, very interesting about the past. The historical value of the fort and the ---- is important in learning how it's ---- portion of the US was developed. Lots of good knowledge ---- you do not learn in school 0 I had no idea how vital the fort was to the Southwest. I am so glad I stopped and learned! Extremely important to know our Civil War history. Importance of bringing supplies to the ---- To preserve and protect our countries early history. The frontier protections of the Santa Fe Trail. History. Military history is paramount to the US. Preservation of our historical heritage. A wonderful glimpse into the past. Museum was excellent! Preserve the history of the Western expansion of the US. Supplier to all forts in area. Ended Civil War in the West. The Santa Fe Trail, First outpost, historical buildings. This park exemplifies the heart of the American people, their strength, endurance and ingenuity. To help people understand how the ""west was won"" and the dedication of people from earlier times to help this country grow. Westward expansion Civil War Indians. Mr. ---- overview of the park. Story of America. The opening of Western expansion. Very significant. Very unique experience!  One of a kind in the US.  I would definitely come back. Excellent. All history is important and needs preserved. Great to learn about history. Important to maintain the history of our country. Maintaining what would otherwise fall apart and blow away. History is important!  Fascinating view of life in the 1800s.  The amount of supplies managed there was impressive. History of Southwest. Economic and cultural Southwest. This park is an ESSENTIAL link in the history of our country. Transformation by having a new cash economy.  This seems most significant example. Details military and westward expansion-critical. Historical information and evidence of the struggles and victory to move west. It's role in the Civil War and the Indian Wars, as well as the chief point of protection on the Santa Fe Trail.  (Ranger Weiss was a great help!) My great-great-grandfather served at this fort. My great-grandfather was at this fort.  Col. Herbert Merton Enos.  Donna Weiss looked up more information for us. The history. Ft. Union is an important landmark in developing the West. It was a significant site on the Santa Fe Trail and an important military outpost for much of northeastern New Mexico. Unique history of the Southwest. Many thanks to Donna for a fantastic personalized tour!  Amazing place! All history is important. Old West and civil war importance. Trade, defense. It was very informative. Thank you for preserving the park. Historical significance to the civil war and to local history. Preserving nature, history and culture. History of Santa Fe Trail. To us as a retired Army family, we loved the early history. NM history. Preserve history. It is important because it is a well preserved cross roads which linked early routes which significantly aided in the development of the USA. Large, it's necessary to remember where we came from. It was a very important part of our early history. Very informational and educational. History of Fort and Santa Fe Trail. It is very interesting and it is important to our history. First visit through I ---- my ----, well worth the visit.  Very informative re: NM History/Civil War. A way of life has passed, it's important to remember the sacrifices made and the foundations laid so we can appreciate now this place preserves those memories. Assist to Santa Fe Travelers. Important to remember history of U.S. West and how the country. Settling the West. That this Fort was a major distribution center for SD and Forts.  Those Forts created the safety needed by settlers to grow and expand. The history and the preservation of the monument as well as the beautiful landscape. A test many of the US military before civil war and during Indian control and abuse! To describe the New Mexican culture and the US army. Huge. Great sense of history of early America, really cool! Tells a vital story of pre ---- trade as well as military history, etc. The settlement of the West by white man and Easter power structure, meeting of cultures. Very good staff. Santa Fe Trail. Haunting remnant of American history, fascinating place. Provides a historical content about the past and in building early American. Pivotal to development of Southwest and the expansion of the US Westward. Shows importance of the military in West. American history! An important 19th century American land mark and reminder of our history. An integral part of Southwestern growth and it's history. History of America's expansion West, Santa Fe trail, military operations on frontier. If we don't remember where we have been, we can't find tomorrow. It is a vital link to the Western expansion.  Very well done. Learning about how life was during the 19th century in the West as it was being settled. Historic. Great tour by Stephen Mason, excellent knowledge. Love the history of the Southwest. Strong significance. It was the largest fort West of the Mississippi, and was important to the developing of the nation. Important to development of the nation. The gateway to the West and security of the region and Santa Fe Trail. Sheds light on the Westward  movement. The history of the New Mexico territory, the Santa Fe trail, and the presence of US military in the Southwest. History. Major point on the Santa Fe Trail. Historic, fort, wonderful. It helps tell the story at the Westward expansion of the century. Participation in the civil war and local revolutions. Achieving the taking of and the protection of the land taken from Native Americans. Westward movement via the Sante Fe trail and Civil War connection with battle of Glorietta. The history of Fort and Sante Fe trail is valuable.  People can see their heritage and the lessons learned. History, construction techniques of 1800. History of the area. The fort was vital to the West.  It's amazing to know that this occurred in our state.  Emphasis needs to be placed on the importance. The way to the west during and after the Civil War.  We didn't know there was a threat in New Mexico. New Mexico history. Protection of citizens for pioneers of the western expansion of the U.S. The ---- of the push provided an ""authentic ---- environment"" of what early pioneer and soldiers must have felt ----. Quote ---- Major supply point for the SW made possible by this park.  I knew only that it protected people on Santa Fe Trail.  Thanks for educational presentations. Importance in settling of western US. It amazes me what our ancestors were able to accomplish in such a burden, hot/cold environment. Major US military base before during and after civil war, part of transition from older indigenous and Spanish NM to US Southwest, Santa Fe trail connection also key. Remember our history. History of the West with great information on fort. A great historical preservation for national significance. Buildings could be reconstructed to show what living conditions were like. It tells a great story of early soldier life in the West. Exploration, how the US Army did what it did. US settlement of the SW. To remind us of the past of the United States of America. The importance of Ft. Union to American interests in the Southwest. Very important!  Critical for clarifying significance of Santa Fe trail. Hospital. Great experiences! Ft. Union was a central role in the settling of the Southwest. Historical. Importance to westward expansion. Preserve our history. Safety along the Santa Fe trail. To have a thorough history of this compelling era, the people and events that shaped our nation. Very few people are aware of this historic land mark.  Without making it a national land mark, it would not be here in the next hundred years. A great way to view how life was for soldiers in the late 1800's. All of it. It's role in Santa Fe trail and Westward expansion. Our history our chance to see it again. Showing the importance of the military. Protecting the trail, supply for smaller forts. Understanding westward expansion is crucial to understanding the shaping of the nation. The Santa Fe Trail protection. Wonderful-history comes alive. Great historical value to me. Extremely significant considering its role in Santa Fe Trail and Civil War. Great place.  Looks good.  Great staff. Great. One of  a kind.  Important piece of Southwestern history. An historical link to the past-to people civilian and military who helped form this country! Biggest, most important fort on Santa Fe Trail and supply dept to all facts nearby. Supporting the westward expansion of the country. To preserve the history/heritage of our national service men. A great piece of American history worth knowing about. Look at a point in time in history. Preserving the history of the men and women that served our nation both in the North and South. Shows the history of how we settled the West. Tribute to the 1,000's of lives that passed through the area as the US expanded. To protect our country's history. Family history. The outpost to the West and the history of the Buffalo Soldiers. Very informative staff.  Made very welcome.  Good history lesson. Historically one of the most important forts in west. Demonstrates how things have changed since the first visitor in New Mexico. Excellent reminder of the importance of the Santa Fe Trail in settling the west. Help with expansion of West. Highly significant. Historic-saving this site for future generations. Historical gem.  Particularly economic impact. I've been following the Santa Fe Trail from Kansas City-fascinating to see where and how people lived at the height of its use. Keeping history alive. Lots of historical importance! Santa Fe Trail remnants.  Huge Adobe Fort is unique. The history of the West begins and ends at Ft Union. To teach our kids history. Very important part of history in this area. Education about our past is crucial to our future.  Great job! Great history. Great parks and very well run.  Staff was great!  ---- Weiss was super! Great significance of our history. History for Southwest and New Mexico. History-education. Hub in American history-need to allocate funding to restore. Important chapter of American history. Learning the history of our nation. Paramount.  Excellent history on Western Hispanic roots.  Critical to our heritage. Pivotal-no west w/o supplies, ---- protection, jobs and well being (hospital). The employees were very helpful, knowledgeable and friendly.  I love the exhibits and the book store. To enlighten us of what life was like then and in this place. Very important part of the expansion of the West."
197,Sitka NHP,SITK,"Historical-glimpse to past. Very worthwhile. History is very important. History. Very significant to show Russian heritage of this area. Great! Historical. According to the visitor center, the totem poles bring a lot of history to Sitka.  History is the significance of this park, like many others. Brilliant-highest level of significance. Excellent tour by Adam. This is important to instruct in Russian Orthodox influence in AK.  Too many people exploited the land and natives, but here, the museum shows how Russian influence beautified AK. To preserve the native culture and educational significance. Russian history. Historical significant!! Very significant. To insure we do not forget where we have come from us Americans. Preserving the rich heritage of the area. Totem Poles, Visitor Center, ---- are all excellent! The link between Russia and the U.S. and the history of Alaska. To preserve. Keeping our heritages alive to our current generation. Excellent with signing. Very important. Culture, commerce. Cultural preservation of the ---- people. Very memorable and informational and enjoyable guide was excellent and Bishop house tour thank you! Very important. Keeps past history alive.  Great greeter by ranger. Very glad that is it preserved. History. Love this park from Native Americans' perspective and ----.  Good job. Gives a wonderful history which would otherwise not be available. GREAT. Historical-Russian-American-Native Americans Relationships. In today's culture, too often the significance of our native Americans heritage is slighted or overlooked.  This park is part of the effort to present a better balance to the American public of information. It illustrates/lands understanding of the history and culture of the area and it's development. Preserve history and heritage. Great video and Bishops house! Preservation of native culture and history. Very important. To keep the history of this marvelous place. We love our national parks, they are for everyone. Helps us to remember our history. Very good. Great place. Relationship between US and Russia. It's a slice of our formative history. Historical ignorance in relation to Russia, natives Americans and post modernism. Important. History. The totems and the beauty of the trail in the woods. Environmental-coastal rainforest, salmon, cultural-access to Native artisans and their work, historical-heritage etc Native American and European history and it's impact. Bringing the Indian culture and Caucasians together for better understanding and relationships. The ---- history and nature connection. It's a great way to learn about the historical culture of the state. Preserving and sharing with the rest of us local Native American heritage/artifacts/skills-----.  Live demonstrating artists-amazing. History-past-present-future. It demonstrates the historical and cultural background of Alaska natives. This is one of the top parks I have been to.  Very thorough and educational. The historical aspect of America and Alaska. Educational. Very important. Beautiful forest, salmon, eagles. totem-poles. Excellent park!  Thanks! History of this area-very interesting. Very nice history view. Its fascinating cultural history. I loved that the past governor began totem preservation here. Increases our knowledge of history of the area.  To learn about the Linget people. Maintain heritage and to educate the public about how culture and environment influence one another. The history of the ""give and take"" between multiple cultures in this place. The history of the Totem Poles. The wildlife and natural plant life and tribute to original culture. Great displays. 0 Saving the old for the young. To preserve natural beauty. The beauty. Preservation and education. To show and carry on the history of what happened in the area. Sharing Alaskan and Russian culture with visitors, enjoyed beautiful trails and hikes today. The early (native and European presence) history. 4 from NYC, 2 from S.F.  We all enjoyed very much. Great history of US and Alaska. Preserve cultural heritage. Preserving native history. The history of the totem poles as well as the forest. Outstanding. To remember the past-very important for our future. Yes. More info about our 49th state. Such interesting history.  I learned a lot! Keeping history-Lussiac Bishop's House-Totem Pole Park. Most important historic site in Alaska. Very important to early Alaskan history. History!!! Saved a piece of history. Shares important elements of American history and culture. Oldest working civilization on Pacific coast. Totems, wood carving. Nature and culture. Historical and culture of all peoples of settling ----. Valuable history. This is a significant preservation of natural beauty and the history of Alaska. Education. To exhibit native culture. The preservation of culture. The Russian Influence (#2) Native America Culture (#1). Celebrating indigenous uses of the natural world. Great history. Totem poles on display. It's a wow!  Love the totem poles it informs people about the native people and culture. Good for preservation of history. Keep history alive. I'm so glad this house was restored! Shows the Russian ---- Alaska. Great look at history. The ---- cultural history. Very interesting. Brings Alaskan cultural history to life. Educational. History of Alaska. The ---- Preserving history. Preserving unique culture not seen elsewhere. Preservation of history and heritage. Saves part of the history of the beginning of the state. Indian culture and forest. Preserve history and nature. Preserving native heritage and legends. History of Orthodox culture. To educate people about Alaskan-Sitka history. Part of a minor, but very interesting, era in American history. Keeping history alive through education. Our combined history and culture. Very important. The history of Native Alaska. History of Tlingit people. The ---- culture, ----, and old growth forest.  The value of salmon to area. This park provides an education for developing awareness of the need for resource conservation. Keeping the culture so others may learn from it. Historical preservation. 0 Russia sold us Alaska! History. Early settlement patterns and native cultural traditions.  Little known story of early America! History. NHPA compliance at work. Sharing, varied tradition and cultures. The totem-poles and their meaning. Very important info and historical. History and ecology. Show the culture. Hugely significant. The effort by the Bishop to not eliminate native culture. Local history and peoples culture preserved. Restoring the history of sitka. So thankful for the historical info.  That provided a foundation for U.S. missionary to build on. The wonderful history. Important! Important part of our nation that is not emphasized in the lower 48. The history of those who came before us. Yes.  Valuable history. Very informative and touching of Bishop Innocent's love for the people. To protect history. History of the orthodox compared to the Christian and their teaching of the Christian concepts. History of the tribes. Explains Russian presence. It is a little known part of our history.  But I think that more about Russia's part in the history of Alaska should be taught. Reminder of U.S. history. Understanding of native history and culture, beautiful forests. Very significant. Shows cultural and natural heritage of Alaska panhandle area."
198,Ford's Theater NHS,FOTH,"This ---- Lincoln was shot. It is where Lincoln/our president was shot by John Wilkes Booth. Contribution to American/world history culture and all peoples and entry international and ---- significance. Presidential history. Significant remembering the life and times of Lincoln. History. Created a --- for all. It brings to life a major part of the nation's history. It is amazing to not only have this theater preserved, but attend current performances!  Museum and presentation was wonderful. This was a ---- our history. A night that changed country forever. Tremendous. Very significant. Very important ---- and history. A vital part of history ---- course of American ---- was changed. Important part of American history. The place Lincoln was killed represents the most divisive time of our nation's history. To learn and be amazed. It shows the history of Lincoln's death. Ford's Theatre has challenges because of crowds.  Timed entry is the best way to handle the crowd. I love this park because I'm American. Honor ----. The interactive exhibits are an added gem! Historical value. It is  very important but tragic piece of our history. It is a shrine to freedom and rule of law.  This ---- history to life.  This site gives a pulse to significant and substantial historical events and historical ----. It is amazing that all of the ----.  This is ---- to our nation. To never forget. Very. A vital and iconic piece of American history.  A national shrine. Historical place in our ---- History of Lincoln. Life and history in American ----. Yes. To show the ---- and the people who contributed to Pre's.. ---- ----. Info about ----. The the world is mightier than the sword. Historic ----. Turning point in American History following the Civil War, more interest and appreciation without the President who led the Country. The history! Keep history alive. Memorable ---- history great ---- sharing the ---- part making ---- a President. Very important to the significance of this Park is invaluable. A Memorial ---- ---- President that ---- leadership and true representation of ----. Very ----. Where ----. The single most important for the Country's most important President. We must remember this to avoid it happening again. Local American history. An important part of our nations history, ---- ---- should always be kept up. The idea that this country is for the people and by the people. Lincoln was killed here.  He fought for our country and equality for all. History ---- ---- ---- in school. Lincoln was a ---- ---- ---- ---- to a ----. Very important to our history!  Lincoln was incredible! The event that occurred on this ---- marked the beginning of a long battle for civil rights and the ---- and their ----. Very important to remind all of ---- ---- country was established and the blood that was shed for our freedom. History. Commeration of the President who said the ----. Important history. Historic event, people involved significant to nations history. Historical significance to preserve our ---- ----. Major historical event. Part of historic history. Very much so. Keeps alive the spot of Lincoln's assassination. Very ---- ---- ---- visitor and ----. It's the place when possibly an most ---- ---- was assassinated. To make ---- clean of Lincoln's death. One of the greatest leaders and strategists.  The United States ---- had in office and the people need this story of his ----. Extremely important historical site. Preservation of our history. The historical ----. Very important to our history. A very important President was killed here. Historical, and education good, ---- ---- ---- and ----. Very significant to ---- these very ---- ---- in our nations history. Of course, the significance ----. The Site is of utmost importance.  It's significance is self evident. To learn about Abe Lincoln. Abraham Lincoln's ---- ---- Civil War and the Reconstruction ---- ---- end of the Civil War. Great- location and ---- President Assassination. This Park is ---- ----. Ford's Theatre is the location where President Lincoln was shot shortly after ending slavery and saving the Union.  His legacy is enduring. History of our Nation/Civil War/Lincoln. Where Abraham Lincoln was shot.  Some ---- ----. The Park ---- ---- reinforces ---- ---- American. Preservation of our Nation's history is important for our people and visitors. History ----. Lincoln's Assassination. The ---- ---- 16th President of our ----. Where Lincoln was ---- the ---- lead up to. Remembering the place that we lost a great leader.  Where history and reconstruction changed. Historical-knowledge. It's where Lincoln was Assassinated. Historical aspect of Lincoln. Very educational experience for 10-60+ year olds.  Excellent Ranger Talk! Lincoln was shot. Foster an understanding of Lincoln and the Civil War period-to learn what has happened in the past to guide our thoughts and actions going forward. History of Lincoln Assassination. History of Lincoln. History. Lincoln was shot here and that's ----. Preserving one of the Nation's greatest Presidents.  We love Lincoln! Remembering ---- ----. This ---- ----. Valuable to preserve history and keep a great man's legacy alive. A piece of American History. GREAT. History/---- ----. The life and death of Abraham Lincoln our President, as well as all ---- ---- and keep on Country ----. To help preserve a part of our Nation's Heritage, and bring  history alive for visitors. Invaluable! Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln, Abraham. One of our most beloved presidents of all time.  Was shot here, duh! Keeps younger generations connected and history and culture of the country. The birth of our nation as we know it. ---- ---- ---- ----. Historical remembrance of ---- president assassination. Loss of a president ---- ---- of U.S. history. Abraham Lincoln's death ----. It gives us a reason to ---- and ---- on the trails and tribulations this nation has over come and why it is the greatest nation.  And ""pinnacle of democracy"" in the world. It was the ---- of the ---- ---- ---- ----. ----. Extremely important- ---- to see this part of ---- history. The national significance is a history of the  ---- of Lincoln. Remembrance of the ideals Lincoln brought prominence to. To ---- ----. The tour was very good.  Very well done. I learned so much about Lincoln and facts surrounding assassination-plot, conspirature-it was great. Critical impact to American history. Our sad past preserved to help generation of Americans understand who we are as a people. 0"
199,Alaska Public Lands Info Ctr - Fairbanks,FAIR,"Shows history of Alaska and the various native cultures. Distributing information on Park sites not accessible by road/driving. They are ""our best idea"" and it makes us proud.  It preserves what is best about America. Explaining history and culture.  Very well done! Loved learning more about area. Education of Native Alaskans-cultural. Educate visitors about living life in Alaska. The wilderness. Wilderness. Explains and preserves history of Alaska. The heritage of this area. Info center, good info. Not ---- sign, but ---- is integral to presenting information about, and helping locals and visitors make a connection to, the ---- lands in Alaska. To teach about Alaska and nature. Preservation of land and animals. Wild life preservation. To preserve the wild. Preservation of wilderness, education about culture. What an amazing facility. To preserve our natural habitat. I can't speak too much to the park but Jamie Smith is a wealth of fantastic advice and knowledge. Relationship to the lower 48. The beauty!  It is gorgeous. The park is significant as it shares Alaskan native history.  The visitor center is very informative. Unspoiled beauty. Helps to lead people to our treasured Denali. To preserve environment exclusively for native creatures and plants. Show everyone how nature and wildlife is still so significant and how we can all be connected. Better comprehension of environment as base of human living. We need to preserve these park for our future generations. Parsone wilderness. Merveiueux. So we always have a place where the wild is wild! Wonderful!!! A lot ---- are there to read. Great place for locals and visitors to AK together information.  A lot of information on all Alaska public lands. Always important to learn about our history! Wonderful. Unity. To help inform the public of the cultural and natural history. I believe that it is vital to whoever/however indigenous species and value indigenous ---- and history. The great one.  And the animals. Important. We visited an info center. To keep alive our history. Brings to light the rich culture and history of the native peoples while bridging the gap of purchase and eventual statehood by the US govt.  Being a Native Hawaiian and knowing the similar struggle my people faced, this establishment is necessary to inform the public. Cooperation and communication between ---- and white cultures. Introduction to the Athabascan way of life and life in the interior of Alaska. To ensure our future generation know about our wonderful and amazing places. Sharing the history. Shows the rich history of the area and its aboriginal culture. The importance of our wild lands, cultural heritage, and state history. About as pristine as it can go. The mountain's majesty and ---- people. To preserve these natural beauties for future generations. Great displays for insight and learning purposes.  Great, thanks.  Wish highway to Coldfoot VC was paved. It helps visitors learn about activities and historical opportunities. Morris Thompson. Best place ever!  Friendly staff!  Would definitely come back! The culture and history of Fairbanks and the interior. Educates people on significance of the park. The park is a preservation of our natural land! I have been to 37 national parks, this is the only negative ranger experience I have had, I spoke with all 3 rangers, none were helpful. Fantastic introduction to parks and natural/cultural history. Incredible opportunity to explore our history and relationship to nature. Good introduction to all Alaskan parks. Thank you! Beringia. Only Arctic Forest in the U.S. Staff very friendly. To promote the use of, and awareness of, federal park lands in Alaska. Historical and economical, not to mention just cool! It provides wonderful information and experiences with the native culture.  The ranger was very informative about issues concerning the preservation of land and culture. Your presence has made the REALLY rainy weather not so dreary. It captures the past for us, the native peoples and the early settlers, miners, railroaders, etc..  Excellent visitor center and museum. Shares insight into important cultural traditions. Yes."
200,Lake Mead NRA,LAME,"Provide preservation and protection of our resource and make them available to the public. Helps everyone. Protection the historical ---- the era of building the dam. Preservation of wildlife/drinking water. Keeping several million people alive-keeping the Blue Planet Blue!  Assisting nature to survive. Historical, Water Preservation/Conservation, Power, etc. Beauty place. Significant recreation opportunity. To protect natural wildlife, and land.  Also allow others the opportunity to view ----. Since it is made ---- ---- submerged ---- effort to provide water to Calif. NW Arizona ----. Hoover Dam. It was amazing the water was clear.  It was very cool in water.  The shells were big. H2O. Get-away lake. Scenery. Lake Mead holds the water behind the Hoover Dam which protects communities below the dam. Hoover Dam. The lake and history of people/animals in area. Shows the diversity of USA parks. The lake. It's a very nice place to come with friends and family. History. To provide a clean fun family experience. It helps promote nature and the beauty of our natural environment. Have you heard of the Hoover Dam?!  Welcome California. Well if the water keeps getting drained, there won't be any water left for the public to use.  Remember it's ""our water"" not the government's. Beautiful area.  Important watershed for the greater SW area.  Also it's our family tradition to come here for vacation for the last 20+ years.  Love this desert and the Colorado River. Nature in it's original form.  Not tampered or altered too much. Vacation. Nature. I like beer!! Enjoying nature. Giving a place for family to be together. Good place to go out of Vegas. The recreation part is more important to us.  We love the coves. Education, conservation. This park is a reservation for animals and this park is very spiritual. Recreational center. Keep up the good work!  You guys are doing a great job! Restroom ----. I'm not sure. Historical value to the area and promoting family time. Landmark. Hoover Dam. Don't like tour bus stopping at site seeing view area. Lake Mead. Lake Mead. Beauty of nature. To preserve our natural way of life.  Give our youth experiences and a view of how beautiful our Country is. Better restrooms. This Park shows the nature beauty of our environment, and it shows how this Nation has many beautiful sights. It's family orientated. Water ----. The Hoover Dam. Awesome. Great place to spend quality time with family. Very. Beauty. Preservation. The view. Do not know ----. Worst thing is the walk to get to boat at Marina 3 and parking. Hiking, biking, water both recreation and providing water to Las Vegas area. The dam electricity. Restrooms need to be cleaned more often.  Road is rough.  Maybe charging a fee and have the road paved. Preservation and education the public about the Mojave desert. Family. Mohave desert and Lake Mead with creation of Hoover Dam. This recreation is significant due to it's historical importance. Is perfect for family spend time. First time coming here so I do not know. Educational. Family vacation. The park is important because it brings fun/happiness to our family. I had a very safe experience getting to and enjoying the park!!! Preserving it for future generations.  Love it! Lake Mead provides water to surrounding areas. The value of water in the southwest. Unknown. Family recreation with safety and convenience. Too crowded! Beauty of the nature. Family loved it.  Brings peace and togetherness. It's a great place to get away from the city and have good family time without material distractions. Great for family recreation. Our family has enjoyed the outdoors in relative safety and security in the USA. It's a reprieve. Preserving nature.  Water. Great family experience, beautiful way to see nature so close to LV, NV. Best place to go to the lake. Very important recreation for family and community. Lake Mead. Feeds vegetation and animals in this hot area. Hoover Dam is a historic structure that provides water and power to millions of Americans.  Lake and desert are not particularly significant by themselves. (Cause of the sun it's a hell).  The rest is wonderful. Love-absolutely awesome. 0 ""Homeostasis"" of the area. Grand Canyon. Stricter on litter. To maintain nature as it was despite the construction around it. Recreation and preservation. Colorado river waterway. Bathroom are really bad conditions. family park. Liz was awesome.  Give her a raise. The beautiful clean water. Import for our state our family and future. Part of our history. To bring family together. Unique desert environment and ecosystem. Water in a desert. Come here with family several times a year. The beach and that nature and a park for people to learn about the wild life. It provides information about available activities in the area.  Very helpful info. Not using park enough to say-overnight camper. Beautiful. to respect nature. Allows people to get out. The history of the building and railways. To enjoy the beauty of the desert. Willow Beach. I have no idea (first time here). Very good. Beautiful river. Ability to teach about nature and history. It shows the beauty of the South West. Beauty, seeing the glory of God's creation/education. To enjoy the recreational natural ---- of nature. Its beauty. Keeping Vegas alive. Great display of MAN'S ingenuity. Water source. Hoover Dam. Clear the bike path of rocks. Very significant, Lake Mead and Dam History. The history of the Hoover Dam or a visionary idea so far ahead of its time. Very beautiful, family lives here. Our State history a desert lake. Explore the outdoors. Crawdad Cove Cave and Box Car Cove could use thrash cans at bottom by the Lake/on water's edge. The National significance is to bring families together for a time to have fun. It's beautiful, and trail great. Very good. Enjoying the water and scenery. First National Recreational ----. Hoover Dam and the ability of our Nation to create some thing so advanced during difficult economic times. Made from Hoover Dam. Very significant. Place to take the family. Spend time with family. Very good. A place to ---- when temperature are high. Source of electricity, learning about ---- of rocks. The combination of the natural beauty of the land the engineering marvels of man. Natural beauty. Confirmation of creation and a Grand Creator. Enjoy nature in Nevada. Geological view and great surroundings. Natural resources (water), outdoor recreation-appreciation of nature. To have a little education on the area and family time. Family fun. Great lake at the bottom of Hoover Dam. Limit use of radios on beaches.  Noise pollution, condos, and litter very bad. This place is good for your ----. Family time. Water recreation and ---- desert. For us the people to enjoy nature. Nice place to relax and have a good time. Unknown. Off roading and boating great ---- time. Very important thank you. Water storage. I'm ---- ---- question. Preservation ---- ----. Family recreation, very fun. GRAND CANYON-nature's.  Nature at work.  CRUISE-relaxing and smooth-definitely recommend. It is a beautiful natural and recreational area.  It is awesome the way it is preserved and protected. A beautiful family recreation area! Family, undeveloped land. For visitors. Nice family time area. A source of water for the growers of our food. Very important. Allows people opportunity to explore and learn about area and geological, historical culture. Recreation."
201,Big Bend NP,BIBE,"Good neighbors to Mexico in this area. It is truly a priceless national treasure.  A place to commune with the essential miracle of life and turn down the volume of modern folly. Rio Grande-history and US Mexico border. Unique geology and ecology; history. Scenery. Wilderness and history of boundary. The CCC work program and history. Preserving our nation's beauty. Hiking!  Vistas. Appreciating our natural surroundings and wildlife. Our history and the wildlife/scenery is significant. The desert and the mountains.  We liked the trails for walking and hiking. The natural beauty of the park is worth preserving for future generations. Indescribably beautiful!  We belong to the earth, not the other way around! Ecology, geology. Yes, of course. Desert location, only NP in TX. Geology and panoramic vistas. Good. Rugged splendor. This area represents, to me, not only-the shopping of our world from earliest times but also the scope of early life of settlers. Preserving and highlighting beautiful and special parts of our country. The sights, the mountains, the desert and animals. Saving cultures and scenic beauty. This is a park everyone should come to visit-it is amazing. Natural features-desert, river and mountains in one place.  Vastness. The vast space. The beauty and landscape represent the diversity and the ability to thrive even in the most challenging environment/circumstances. Best exposure to this TYPE of America. To enjoy the quietness of nature away from city life. It's nice to be ---- to look at the way ---- looked 100's of ---- ago without development. Conservation of a unique location in the desert southwest.  Also, one of ---- places in Texas with large land area avail. to public. Preservation. History, culture, scenery, ---- history. Desert environment, learning ecosystem. Learning opportunity for ecoregion, historical significance. History, eco system, emptiness, solitude. Keeping a part of the country in its natural (yet accessible) state.  Reminding us how huge and varied the country is-seeing (here) how it merges with Mexico.  Giving space and stillness, etc.. Preservation of natural areas. Provides peace and stability to a country that ebbs with chaos. Remote desert. This is one of the most important national parks! I'm a biker.  It's makes a beautiful rides. ---- and ----. Boarder with Mexico and great diversity of land (water, desert, mountains). Old settlements and settlers, remote quiet place with man different environmental interest-mountains, desert. Diverse nature and mountain range. Desert ecology. Allows a view of the geological and cultural/social past and the current conditions. The beauty and grandeur of the high desert and the Rio Grande. I agree to the significance to the nation.  National parks do a great service to it's citizens in not only preserving natural historical features but our connection to the past. Way up there. This park exhibits the vast beauty and differences in the west Texas. It's here. To share all of the American beauty. Preserve this ecosystem for the future generations-recreation opportunities. It is a WORLD RENOUNED biodiversity area-it is unique and very special. U.S. resource protection. Natural beauty, preservation of pristine natural beauty and wild life habitat. A plus. Not only the history that have, also the desert views. The opportunity to appreciate this diverse landscape. This park is truly a gem.  My favorite park in the lower 48 and incomparable to anything! It's significant because there are three unique ecosystems with large wildlife biodiversity and there's a unique relationship with Mexico! Because it's on an international border and a unique ecosystem. The natural diversity. Preserving a unique area of topography and it's wildlife. Natural beauty. Preservation of open space and historical relics. Extra ordinary flora and fauna!  We were here a week; could have stayed longer. Preserving natural area and animals. Desert, mountains, river, wildlife and plants-a beautiful scene no where else.  We have visited 5 states, all Canada and some Mexico. A preserved portion of stark desert of the southwest. The opportunity for people to see the beauty of the Chihuahua desert and mountains. Amazing natural structures, wide open beautiful spaces. Beautiful park with incredible geology.  We need to be able to see and preserve it forever. Every park and every national park IS AMERICA'S BEST IDEA! Freedom, ---- in isolation.  Been here over 40 times, huge fan! Have not spent enough time in park to make decision. History, land, and importance to education. It's a national treasure! Preserve the canyons and the beauty in this desert/mountain area. Protecting our desert lands. The beauty and the fact that it is still about nature and not commercialization. The beauty of Big Bend is a must to see for many generations.  We need this place to escape the city rush! This park exhibits unique nature and history of S. Texas. To keep it so that others can use. Old mountains, ----, border, great canyon. Its history. Neutral zone. The most beautiful part of the most beautiful State.  Right on the border, different from any other par of U.S.  I wouldn't exist if this Park didn't exist. A great example of proud Southwestern and Mexican heritage for the U.S. Crucial to the health and well being of our Country, our people and all of the wildlife.  Magnificent. Preserves the dark skies for the public use. It represents the raw beauty of this Country. It's geologic and archeology significance as well as being part of the International Park System Relations. No industry.  Not a lot people.  It's beautiful Park. Preserve the natural wilderness. Cooperation with Mexico-remote beauty-unique. It is a beautiful park that I would come back to see. Major significance to teach new generations the appreciation of nature. The historical, cultural and natural diversity in this park makes it valuable. Untraveled wilderness shared with Mexico-unique environment that must be preserved. Flora and fauna diversity. Landscape and environment. Critical to life! Establishment of the republic of Texas/statehood. Man historic items, awesome visuals and hiking. Contains an entire mountain range, diverse habitat, many birds. Preservation of a unique Texas landscape to be available to all U.S. citizens. History. The sky island concept and the river, desert, mountains coming. The landscape and wild life is so special and unique.  We hope it is preserved for future generations. Focuses on intersection of desert, river and mountains and how those habitats interact. Great wilderness area. So much to see/geology, hiking, birding). Having a natural area for people to enjoy and learn. The big open country of Texas. The natural beauty, the flora and wildlife unique to the area, and the native American history. It's significant because the Rio Grande and surrounding areas are very important and beautiful. Geological and early ranching in the S.W. The nature. Wasn't ---- here. 0 Awesome landscape in the great state of Texas. Preservation of an ecosystem and geological/geography and system. All the parks are very significant. The incredible beauty and size. To be some place that is still wild. To remind us of how things used to be.  To show us a real night sky and clean air to teach us about conservation. It is all example of past generations looking to the recreational needs of future generations.  Thanks Grand Parents!! Beautiful landscape, many, many wonderful things to see and do. Geology, birding, scenery, history. Preserve culture and landscape for future generations. Preserving the Western frontier. The pristine nature of the park.  Most of it is still untouched. Vast beauty and grandeur. Geology and wildlife.  Remoteness. History, preservation, beauty and climate, timeless environment. Symbol of the nation.  We want visitors from other countries to be IMPRESSED. History-yesterday's and tomorrow's.  Legacy for my/our grand children. Geology.  Wildlife.  Happy Birthday, NPS! The beauty of the Desert environment."
202,Coronado NMem,CORO,"Helps explain the National border with Mexico due to the early explorers like Coronado. Preserving history and beauty an unexpected pleasure. Land mark. Open to all (no) charge. Natural beauty good, cave interesting way damaged. It celebrates the earliest explorations into our country from the south.  Excellent exhibits, beginning of Spanish influence. It fits into the history of Spanish exploration and occupation of the Southwest. Coronado's exploration of the Southwestern United States. It cormorants Coronado's Expedition into what is now the Southwest U.S. It is near Mexico, has unique plants and animals-historical references. Historical.  It includes an overall view of the different peoples that influenced the development of our Nation in the Southwest/West i.e. Indian Spanish, Mexican and U.S. soldiers and how they interacted and influenced each other ---- settlers. Boarder desert region. History! The Kartchner Caverns are spectacular.  We have been to many caves-some ---- ----, but the care taken to preserve these is most impressive. Native American and Spanish history. It commemorates the influence of European and native culture as represented by Coronado's expedition. Not only does NPS preserve story of Coronado the NPS preserves great lands and caves and a diversity of wildlife. History is important. It provides a glimpse into the intertwined history of Mexico and the U.S. over the past 500 years. Rare combination of history and natural beauty-after reading about Coronado I question if a national park unit should be named after him-time for a name change. History, climate, availability accessibility. Did not go into the park, but it is vast and should be preserved for the benefit of the flora and fauna. Preserving scarce high desert hesitant. Average. Coronado was here. The average person would not know about our country and the history of the land. Historical and informational. Historical value. Road to top of pass extraordinary with spectacular views. Coronado expedition. Historic discovery of the southwest. Family fun opportunity, close to town. Great cave. The explorer Coronado came here. Nice exhibits. Preserve beach but true history is not told accurately-glorifying Coronado is inappropriate. To visualize the historic significance of Coronado, we had a great time thanks. Ranger Kim was so helpful!  Ranger Lauren was very fun and showed me a sweet Spanish sword. Very informative, kid friendly facility, ranger very friendly. First European settlement!  Exploration to KS!  (Home state) critical to understanding fate of native peoples. History. Average. Our inter-cultural country and impacts on our lifestyle. It's pretty. Provides employment for my friends and preserves a lovely patch of desert mountains. Provide history of area prior to being settled by Americans. Understanding history and mixing of cultural. Fantastic job done here! Historical, and natural history. Very significance. Very significant. Unusual scenery. The beauty of the land. Accessibility. History. Its beauty and the history of the Coronado expeditions. Our heritage, esp re ---- purchase. The cave is an important part of the geological history of the area.  It was fun to climb into a cave left in it's natural state. This Park is important because it educates people on the origins of exploration in this area. To educate on history and significance of area. Coronado's Journey North into what is now the US. Donald Trump is misinformed, Mexican-American relations offer significant benefits to society and ecosystems. Gets you out in nature with animals, bird watching, beautiful views, lots of plants. Historical insights-protection of wildlife in an area threatened by hunting climate change and habitat abuse. Historical interest. History. Very high-this landscape is amazing. We learned a lot from Lauren Huckle (walk to peak) and Ann (cave tour). Good historical summary of the area and environmental info. Yes. For history it is very interesting and informative.  For beauty and nature. Memorialize the integration of cultures in the Americas. Needed for history and nature. Very interesting information about Coronado expectations. Seeing nature. Sights, animals. Great. I have no idea we came to hike. Rock formations, caves and viability of resources. Spanish exploration. Historical significance of ---- journey. Natural beauty."
203,Scotts Bluff NM,SCBL,"Location to Mormon Trail and Oregon Trail. The geologic beauty and historical significance of the American westward movement are important to preserve. Remembering how this nation was founded and never forgetting the hard work that brings us today. It is honoring the sacrifice of the pioneers as they endeavored to develop the West, which lead to the development of our nation. Part of the trail on the westward migration and settling of the West. The movement westward and the geological impact ---- rivers, etc. To recognize those that traveled across the Oregon trail. Historical ignorance-the number of people that passed through on the way out West is mind boggling. It is a sign past of America's western expansion. It preserves the history of our nation and reminds people of the sacrifices our ancestors made to expand the country. Western expansion, pioneers. A major landmark on the 19th c. road west. The NPS does better than state facilities on the Oregon trail in telling a comprehensive story-geology, indigenous people ----. This was an import part of the settlement of our country. The view of the valley is spectacular.  It paths the descriptions you read of the settlers travels in perspective. Heritage-history-natural beauty. Preservation of ---- resources. It's history in the growth and expansion of our country-pioneer heritage. Land mark for Oregon trail-expansion of the West-a lot of history. History. Westward migration decimation of native Americans lower pressure on woman's bathroom faucet. Emblematic of the western migration the opening of the ---- and the Oregon trail.  Very interesting. Preserving a big piece of our history.  Thank you! Gateway to the wharf. Opening of the west! Seeing where our forefathers went and what they had to go through to settle this land-amazing (----!) The history and educational for our home school. The Oregon trail. Landmark for early settlers. It shows what our ---- ---- went through to make a better life. To look back into history and learn about it.  ---- with family and friends. Oregon Trail natural uniqueness of landscape. Shows the struggles of pioneers to establish a homestead here. History and geological feature. The historical reminder of our cities. History, Morgan was great! Great history. It brings together the history of Native American and westward expansion. It is our heritage, we all need to know it. It preserves history of the area and of those who came to and through Scott's bluff.  Children need access to visuals it helps them enjoy and remember. Historical. To show how tough the pioneer people were why trying to find a new way of life-their spirit lives on with us today-going west! Documenting westward migration and its impact. Oregon Trail marker! History of the migration west. Oregon trail route through Mitchell Pass. Tells the story of the Oregon Trail and the migration of people to the West.  An example of the growth of America. Being on the Oregon trail, a land mark for so many pioneers. Role in westward expansion-seeing the plate from ----.  Loop and the reason why the pioneers chose their path was good.  Seeing history is so important to learning.  We have such an easy life today. Historical and nature. 0 It's on the Oregon trail. It's a landmark. It shows the enduring perseverance of our forefathers to get things done. Oregon trail ----. Pioneer heritage. The help it provides in the education of our country's history and development. It is ---- to those who passed here before. Amazing important history of the Oregon trail. Info regarding pioneers accomplishments. Scotts bluff has much to offer guests including history, nature and culture, been here many times. High. It is interesting that this was a stop on the Oregon Trail. Geology and pioneer history. This park is important in understanding the immigrant history following the Louisiana Purchase. Shows how pioneers come west. Oregon trail. The Ranger (Jerry L) I spoke with at the top of the bluff was very friendly and informative. The end of ----. Historical-Oregon trail and pioneers events. Helps to explain and reinforce the importance of westward migration and it's impact on the nation. Our history as we moved west.  Life and death marked this trail.  Our country grew as a result of this trail. Part of the heritage westward migration of the pioneers. Gateway to settling the ---- ----. History. Immense in terms of history and preservation of natural environment and access to the beauty of nature. Oregon trail, immigrants using the bluff to go west. The beauty of the area.  The memory of those who pioneered our country. The migration across the U.S. to the west and the hardships the pioneers endured or died from. Historical. About Scott, HIram, but it is where the Oregon trail went through. Awesomeness!  Thanks! Historic and beautiful. It's part in the westward movement. To pioneers this was a ""pit stop"" to Oregon. Learning history never gets old! Showing what the people went through on their move West.  What they sacrificed and challenges they went through. The pioneer spirit. These 3 trails were instrumental in developing the western part of the U.S.. Westward migration and natural history. A stark and beautiful symbol of American westward movement. Beautiful reminder to what settlers viewed and were challenged to cross on their movement West. All I would like to say is you would draw more hikers if you could extend or connect the hiking trails-along type ----. Oregon trail-history. To stand as a Memorial to the ill-treated Natives and to the immigrants searching for a new life. Landmark in way west for wagon trains of settlers. The expansion of the west, the bravery of the pioneers, definitely a significant national monument. Keep them active, build a west overlook, the panoramic view there is great. History of Oregon trail. This is an amazing historical land mark. Oregon Trail.  Hiram Scott. It is a major part of the history of the Oregon Trail. Our ancestors were hardworking and explorers. To celebrate and educate about westward movements. Population of the West. Oregon Trail stop point; important to history of nation. The westward landmark and people went through on way west. Near repair helping trails up to Saddle Peak. Oregon Trail. History. Marks westward journey of early settlers. Pioneers, Oregon Trail. Natural history.  American history. Provided historical landmark for thousands of pioneers on the Oregon Trail. A lot happened here in pioneer history. Opportunity for learning about history of the plains. Very high! Marker for the pioneers.  Oregon and Mormon Trail history. Our history as a nation with movement west-for all-including the Native Americans. Oregon Trail history. Seeing the sights of the Panhandle, seeing the trails where the pioneers went."
204,William Howard Taft NHS,WIHO,"Seeing a president's home. The location of house and the importance of Pres. Taft. The origins of the people who shared our nation is important.  Understanding Taft's origin and his contributions is inspiring. Honoring our nation's presidents/historical figures. Important President who also served as supreme court Justine, Gov. of Philippines-important and interesting history for people to see and learn. It's important for everyone to learn of our presidents past. The significance of this park is because of all the history and beauty of the house! Essential. Site to learn about the Taft's and their contribution to U.S. History. Recognition of an over looked President. The site of where William Taft was raised. Important part of American history. This park highlighted the life and career of a person with effective leadership and integrity who served his country in many ways. Seeing where William Howard Taft grew up, and his life, as well as his family. The birth place of some of our presidents.  A chance to display and teach history and preserve it too. Taft grew up at this site. History to remember where we came from. History of President Taft. President sight. Taft is important historical figure, President and political/judicial person. Educating about Taft's life and his presidency. Jr. ranger program is great! Very!  President Taft had a lasting impact as president and chief justice. All of the President's home should be a part of the National Park Service guidance-preservation of our historical past is a priority telling of the significance of Taft other than an over sized bath tub in residence. Our nation needs to preserve presidential history.  Use this home to tell the story of Wm. Howard Taft-that he was a real person who lived here. Home of a President of USA and one of Ohio's leading politicians.  Learned that Bob Taft's family was heavy into politics. Instruction on US Presidents. To honor William Howard Taft's place in history as our 27th President.  Thoroughly enjoyed this site after reading ""bully Pulpit"", we visited from the KC area. Historical. Part of our history. Important significance to the history of our country and high educational value and architectural value. To be able to see history and birthplace of W.H. Taft. It's important to study and learn from our nation's past to create a better future. A tribute and explanation of the contributions and accomplishments of the U.S.'s twenty-seventh president. Great. History. Important president and national figure. Political history. Presidential history-very significant. Very educational. Very important-didn't know anything about president Taft before. Seeing the room President Taft was born in and seeing some of his family's possessions. All of our ---- a significant part ----. Legacy and history of Taft. History is never wasted on the future. Keep citizens aware of history. Very. National history! Very nice. Responsibility of public service without ---- of business. Home of former president. Excellent. Dennis did a fantastic job as tour guide. Learning about the youth which became president. It's an unexpected gem to learn more about Pres. Taft. Helps em to learn more about a lesser known but still very important, president. We are leaving so much ---- history on our journey across the country visiting these historic sites.  We are so grateful! Historical education. Maintain knowledge of nation's history. To learn more about President Taft. This is the third grandson seeing this house at age 12, older is now 18. Taft home is part of our history. Birthplace of a former president. Learn the history of Taft and his contributions to our nation. Political history and display of family values. National and regional treasure in history of a great statesman. Provides great info on Taft. Excellent, very informative and presented in easy to follow format. Learning more about the history of the Tafts. This is Taft's home, so it's significant in itself. Very significant considering Taft is the only American to serve as a president and Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Tells the story of a public servant who has done SO MUCH for our country-and tells that story so well! Presidential history. Learning about the integrity of our past presidents is very important. Birth place and history of a President (Taft). Preserves the history of one of our most important historical leaders for the education of future generations. Great significance. Birth place of ----. The park highlights the life of Pres. Taft.  Great presentation.  Awesome tour! Learn about presidential history. Presidential history. Birthplace of W. ---- Taft we visited on July 14, 2016 Jason Boyd was our guide. We love to study presidential history we had a great visit. Connections to the past. It is the home of President and Chief Justice Taft. Taft served the country during a turbulent time-a more rigorous, adult approach to the history seems essential to us. Not so much the location of house, but the need to have at least one site dedicated to W.H. Taft to educate persons on his accomplishments. Learning about the significant contributions of Taft. History. Demonstrating integrity while being a public official. I've learned about Taft's life. Historic preservation. Providing historical information in a relevant ----. To provide information and the significance of Pres. Taft, very well done. W H Taft's presidency. Being able to see where a president was born and raised. Education of nation's history and preservation of Taft's ----. Former Presidents house. Historic political invaluable-can't learn this in a text book these days. VERY significant-President Taft! Our former Presidents contributions to our nation and world. Makes presidential history much more interesting. History of President. Presidents past is very important. Historical preservation of presidential boy hood home. Learning about a President. Taft-need more men like him today! I am so glad that we as a people value those who served our country. Learn more about our presidents. Wonderful example of 1800's architecture and it documents the political ambitions of a very political family. The historical nature. Learning about a past president! High historical significance. To know the viewpoints of Pres. Taft/Chief Justice and know how he affected our country then and now. Pres. Taft only president to also serve as Chief Justice of SCOTUS.  Under-appreciated figure in American history. Preservation of historic presidential landmark memorabilia and legacy!  Thank you! Memorial to the contribution of WHT and his legacy for all of us (what citizens). Presidential site. President and chief justice-service is ---- to be very important; good model. Rich history, presidential history. Important ----. Highlights one of our great leaders in history. To teach people about a little known but very intelligent talented President who contributed much to this country. Remember a President of US and chief justice. So important for history education. Great! Learn about William Taft. Taft's incredible accomplishments and illustrating, life back then.  ---- historical significance. Very important to preserve history of our presidents. Great place to learn about Taft. Pres. Taft's contributions to US history. Honoring President Taft."
205,War in the Pacific NHP,WAPA,"History and nature awareness. To honor all those who gave their lives. Asan overlook was established for those who gave the ultimate sacrifice. The only park to memorialize the Battle in the Pacific outside Hawaii. 0 The war in the Pacific. To preserve and protect. The national significance of this park is crucial for commemorating the people involved in the battle of Guam and essential to future generations to come. Memorial for one of the war zones of WWII. It was an amazing experience for those of us visiting Guam and somewhat witnessing a visual presentation which took us back in time helping us feel what the Chamorran went thruogh and Guam as a nation. Remembering history of how we all lived our lives and what it is now. Education about War in the Pacific. History of Guam, especially during WWII. To remember and honor those who gave their lives for our freedom. History of the war. I think this is very well kept ----, a great experience-cool history on Guam. It's high-quality experience. Permanent part of Pacific history. The great defense that the U.S. did.  It was such a blessing.  It's like the savior came to rescue the Pacific island. The history behind the park. The strategic location. The War in the Pacific. This museum and the parks are a vital and rare resource for preserving and teaching about our unique WWII history on Guam.  It is also important for education about our special reefs and fragile environment. Very informative of the past history. To remember the men and women who served. I believe that the National significance of this Park is high.  I feel this way because Guam is a valued part of the Nation, especially its Parks. Information about the war, many people do not know Guam and the other Island were apart of the war. All good. WWII battles. The involvement in the war and our history. It was great we enjoyed the movie and the war museum historical pictures. Very nice place to share history about Guam. Significant and very important presentation of War in the Pacific-pivotal value to US preserve in the Pacific. Learning the history of what happened during the war. Informative for war in the pacific WWII.  I learned mostly about the history of WWII in Europe.  Very little about the Pacific, this helps a lot. The scenery and it's history. The scenery and it's history. Beautiful and well worth it.  Nice to see car go ---- our island. 0 The deep history and culture noted on our island. It is commemorate the sacrifice made here during WWII. It's showcase of the importance of Guam during WWII. Made one realized the horror of war and how Guam played a significant part/role. Our family lived through the Japanese occupation so it is very significant to our family history. Helps pay respects and teach about war in pacific. Nice and love being here. Commemorate the war in the Pacific and it's importance to the current state of affairs throughout the world. Family historical ties to WWII events. It provides an understanding of what my father-in-law and family went threw.  (He was in the concentration camps). Peace and liberty. Reminds us of history. WWII history. A deep sense of history and a cultural fort for the Charmon nation it's something for the whole nation to be proud of home. Battle of Guam during WWII. It is a good park/beach. Asan-remember WWII and the men who died giving us what we have today. The honor and sacrificed they gave for their country. First time visited and very impressed with facilities and staff. Significant. To remember the price of freedom. Educating the public on the price of our freedom. To remember sacrifices of World War II. Very, very significant-it is a ---- spot by an important one. WWII remembrance and education. Representative of a MAJOR part of our history. Historical data. It commemorates the historical significance of Guam during WWII. Preserve history-at time of WWII. I remember and honor those who served. Yes, I believe the history and the memorial of those fallen here is of the utmost importance and significance of this park. To show how the soldiers dedicated to the nation and how Guam contributed to the wars."
206,Crater Lake NP,CRLA,"The ability to study changes in environment on unique balance of Crater Lake. Unique and beautiful. The pristine beauty. The lake is sacred to Native Americans in the region.  The lake is also the deepest in the U.S. with very blue, clean, clear, pristine water. Pure water.  Preserving Native American heritage. Preservation of land for future generations to leave it unspoiled. One of a kind-created by powers way bigger than us.  It was also the prettiest shade of blue! It symbolizes the ---- of society and US as a nation. The symbol of change for our nation.  Volcanic lake. The fantastic history and view of this area, one of a kind formation of lake. The preservation of our natural treasures, and beautiful nature. National parks ---- ---- heritage to pass on to our children and grand children.  More meaning for than theme parks. It is a historical land mark unlike any where else in the country. Breathtakingly beautiful.  Would like an extensive science center.  I live in Yreka, CA, only a 2.5 hour drive away.  Should come more often. The unique beauty of Crater Lake. It is one of a kind!  Gorgeous!  We are so lucky for such natural beauty! Preservation and education on Crater Lake area for future generations. Preservation of nature, history and recreational facilities for future generations. Please DO NOT consider private sponsorship of national parks.  The thought alone is nauseating.  These are for the people. Beauty in its near pristine condition. Everyone should have access to beautiful, remote places. Unique geographical area AND beautiful. A natural wonder.  Should definitely be preserved for future generations. Deepest/clearest lake in U.S.. Most epic and deepest lake in America.  Awesome. The lake and the volcano. No other lake is so deep or so darn blue. A beautiful landmark unlike any other place.  About the only place in America where you can drink water right at the source! Scenery. To remind us of our good fortune to live here and our place in life and the universe-and to teach us to think! The lake. To maintain the resources we have and to keep the park pure and pristine. The lake! Keeping areas, as such, clean, wild. A rare gem! Deepest lake in U.S. and bluest. Remind us of our geologic past. Very important to preserve in its natural condition. History and taking care of the parks for future generations.  Keep up the good work. It is the only place like this in the U.S..  Absolutely beautiful. The park is significant due to the natural wonder of the lake.  Without park status and protection, the lake would have been totally ---- up. It ensures the preservation of an iconic and unique national landmark. How amazing the universe that we live in.  Thank you for helping preserve it.  Breathtaking area. Making nature available to people with the least change to the environment. Lake and customer service. It is a unique place of the world. As a geologic research area and forest preservation area. Natural beauty. It is a wonderful physical landmark for all to enjoy. A monument to a significant volcano such as Pompeil and other eventful volcanoes. The geologic history and it's natural beauty. Creation of the earth. Preserving the natural significance of America for future generations. Volcanic legacy. Unbelievable. Beauty as the lake and surrounding land. Lake developed and formed by a volcano. I believe it is most significant to future generations, science and others. This place is symbolic of the preservation we need to keep our lands wild and in their natural beauty for generations to see as an example. Site of a most massive volcano! Deepest volcanic lake, preserved untouched land in a developed country, it is important to preserve our land. Completely it's uniqueness.  I am not sure where else a person can go in the US to see a beautiful lake inside a volcanic crater! I have visited ----. Historical. Crystal clear blue water, natural beauty. The unique beauty and historical/geological significance of the area. Projected from commercial interests and kept pure.  But gas boats and over priced souvenir shops hurt that. Very high. Natural beauty, uniqueness. Significantly beautiful, geological, environment. The natural and unique beauty. Only lake in a crater that is so deep/blue/beautiful. True national beauty can come from the ashes of destruction. A beautiful geological treasure. Deepest caldera lake in U.S. and well maintained. Best fir trolley. Unique geologic features. Deepest lake, volcanic area.  Is unique with the blue lake. Deepest and cleanest lake in the country. It's so unique and so valuable thankful it's a national park. Extraordinary. A place to come, get away, regenerate. National park for one thing. One of a kind, geologic beauty and significance, loved it! To show how pristine things can be.  The awesomeness of nature. Nature, history. Natural wonder. Crater Lake is a national treasure!  We drove all around the rim road, stopping at nearly every over look and reading the panels and hiked to the look out tower.  What an awe inspiring experience! Green space preserve history/nature keep knowledge of past so we can better the future environment. It's an amazing park and very significant. There is nothing else like it in the country as far as I know.  Great resource. Very significant! We appreciate it's dedication and educative attributes as related to geology and native people history/presence. It's beauty and history. Beauty of the royal blue lake water and the history of its formation. See the impact of a volcano eruption, the blueness of the water and clean air."
207,Cane River Creole NHP,CARI,"It brings the history of the south to life not fully, but in a day to day way! Yes, this was a beaufiful Louisiana landmark. It's important to know our nation's history-and it's important to know what NOT to repeat. Cane River Creole NHP certainly was interesting to visit and learn about its history.  However, I do not believe it was especially significant in the history of our country. Wonderful insight into how people of that era lived in the Cane River area, including the enslaved. Living history very representative of 19th Century life. The history of ---- plantation. Multi generation estate depicting one of the oldest settlements in Louisiana territory. Very historical. Presentation of a ---- by. To learn how they did cotton. Family heritage. History of people in the Louisiana Purchase and Civil War. Focus on slavery. Important reminder of a significant and tragic period of our national life ---- ---- be ---- yet ---- ----. Helps us understand life in the south. I believe it is important to know about and remember our history if only so that we do not repeat our mistakes. It's connection to the Civil War, and the period of time before the Civil War and how people lived with no modern utilities. The connection to slavery, previous ---- off ---- ---- different there views, cultures and customs came to shape parts of our country. It offers incredible insight to a time unlike that of today. Great examples of southern plantations dating from prior to the Civil war.  Preserves elements of the Creole culture. Local history. Opportunity to learn about life in a pre-civil-war plantation. The staff was knowledgeable and presented this period of history extremely well. Reinforces our history although our history isn't always positive. It is needed to keep the historical information of slaves and past slave history. This introduced us to the Creole in Louisiana.  Important to know as a part of the history. The importance of cotton in the South but also the undeniable truth of slavery and Antebellum Culture. Keep our history alive. Exemplifies the ---- ---- ---- ---- in the Antebellum South. Southern Plantation history. To show to the citizens of our age what life in America was prior to, during and after the Gulf War. Huge. History of Louisiana:  life in a plantation. History of plantations/slavery. Yes!  And Thank you for the needed renovations; it was necessary, the furniture was in plastic for protection, but I'll be back to enjoy it. Kathy Prud'homme Guin gave my sister/and me (and another couple) a personal tour of Oakland Plantation.  She personally told us of are the ancestry related to displayed pictures and told us her childhood memories.  Absolutely fascinated. Tells and shows a significant part of our history. The lady was good."
208,Horseshoe Bend NMP,HOBE,"It marked an end to the creek war and helped to establish, further Jackson's reputation and legacy. The significance of this park is to preserve a historical site and to educate visitors who want to learn about it. It was a significant event that impacted the development of our nation to where we are today. Excellent.  So much history which is so important. Historical significance. To honor those who lost their lives. Things to understand the history of Alabama. The history ----  ---- home land. Very good enjoyed the place. Brought to ""light"" the importance of Andrew Jackson and his impact on Indians in the south east. A mile stone in President Jackson's career. Very. Remembering War of 1812. Relative to the history of Andrew Jackson's rise, the development of the SE U.S., the War of 1812, and the demise of the American Indian. Establishment of land for government use in creating most of AL. History is awesome and this helps to learn more. Learning and history. Part of American History. To educate and learn from our mistakes.  Beautifully done. Defining ---- in the establishment of the US.  This battle changed to outcome of the war of 1812."
209,Hot Springs NP,HOSP,"The historical part of Hot Springs. Abundance of water. I guess that is the part that truly didn't stand out-have been to over 20 NP's and can't quickly point this out for ----. Telling the history of the Hot Springs and bath houses, geological area. History of park. It is very unique! The greatest of Arkansas. History that needs preserved. Learning about history. The history of the area. 1. Healing purposes.  2. Social life for the wealthy. The Hot Springs and the relaxing experience. Top notch preservation of history. Very interesting area and part of our history. Great example of the time. ---- Bring both history and nature to the people. Famous people took boats here. The history of the springs. It's history. To educate others about the wonders of hot springs. Utmost. I think it is very important to keep our history alive and accessible to current and future generations. History. Historical. R&R facility for soldiers, veterans, wounded in action, families. Lovely!  Very historic! ---- 0 Education about not only a geological phenomena, but a culture and came in the US history that is so important to our history. Historical significance is great.  Wonderful local history.  Very different N.P. experience.  Employees were very nice. Natural. The hot spring and natural water resource. We loved natural bath thermal display Spring and trails. Cool. This is a ---- treasure! Hot Springs, architecture, history. Protecting the Springs! Healing history of the U.S. I brought my grandkids and they loved it and learned a lot today, things we didn't know were here. Yes, free water for anyone in and out of the USA. Emblematic of the central role natural resources like hot springs played in our national history and American culture. The natural resource that is the Hot Springs and the historical significance of its use. The video presented a walk through time.  All the things at the center were hands-on.  Covered a large age gap. This national park has unique geologic, historic and cultural aspects. History. History. Cool. Very significant.  We have seen many national parks.  This one is unique.  Loved it! Excellent park, keep it up. The history. The beauty of America. The historical significance of not only the springs but of National loons when visited and lived here deserve to be preserved. Historical preservation of a natural site. Fresh hot springs, first land set aside for preservation. We as a nation need to preserve our natural resources. Wonderful historical period in our history. Health ---- to geo thermal spring of high quality. What used to be medical so much change. Hot springs and bath house row. Valuable educational opportunity. History. Important time culturally and the high quality of the geothermal springs. The natural phenomenon of the hot springs. Preservation and education. History, natural resources, and cultural significance. Cool. Preserving history of the hot springs. Very because I have seen many but not are usually this swell. The history behind the waters. The hot springs. Heritage and history and education. Excellent education ---- for all ages. Historical importance. Provides a glimpse into a different time in our history. The location. Because of the Hot Springs. This Park is very significant due to the historical factor. It provides a look into the past and how important it is to preserve amazing natural features particularly when humans introduce changes people and nature can co-exist.  People just need to take care of nature. Unique hot springs. A slice of time in our history.  Americans uses it for perceived ---- ---- to ---- ----.  Nicely preserved. Very ---- High-cultural with added bonus of natural settings. Hot Springs. Part of our nations history. U.S. History and Customs."
210,Aztec Ruins NM,AZRU,"Short ---- I should say small and concise look at Pueblo heritage. Loved it. Great stop for 1.5 hours. Historically it's beyond measure. It is very interesting! Historical treasure. Very good to know history of the tribe. Cultural information. Excellent park-significantly important to learn or original inhabitants of our country. Heritage. The significance is preserving and understanding the culture of the pueblo. One ---- in a very large cycle. History and culture, understanding and preservation of American culture. History and understanding of ancient peoples and their importance to our continued story. Very significant. Offers information about early history of native inhabitants, which relates to and influences regional history. A broader view of North American history-pueblo history. Heritage awareness. This park helps to promote Chacoan history. It's a good reminder of the different people group who have inhabited. History and prehistory of swus. Archeology is incredible and preservation of the ruins also very good. As a place to connect to the history and nature of this region. To reconnect with where the nation has come from and to gain better understanding of the people here. To bring awareness of the cultural richness to our past present, future. To learn about the ---- culture, and to teach us the significance of their society. Learning from Native American tribes the way they utilize and respected the environment and the qualities of society ---- together. Preserving our American history. Fabulous staff! Good do have saved this great place in history. Remembering this history of this nation prior to the ""settlement"" by Europeans. The history of the native Americans and how they started civilization. Reminds us of the struggles and creatively of the different people who ---- great ----. Preserves history. Absolutely essential to understand our heritage. Amazing history of the land before the USA. Culture-this is a good historical and cultural site. Education. High value in regards to historical significance. History of the ancestral people. It is a wonderful experience of how people lived a long time ago! Better ---- any books. It is the otherside of the story we never heard. Native American culture. Preserve ---- ways. Preserve and provides valuable knowledge. Proud to be and American and enjoy all she has to offer. To learn more about the native people. To learn useful ways to live more efficiently. Was one of the best experiences I will ---- with ----. High esp to native puebloans. Knowledge of those that came before. Historical preservation of artifacts and culture. Out S.W. heritage: cultural and historical knowledge. Pre-U.S. history. The heritage of preserving the ---- of the ---- to this land and as a tribute to their amazing work ethic! To show how Puebloan people lived. It shows people were there and live here before the colonization. To teach people of all generations about the Indians history, culture, contributions. Cultural heritage of Pueblo people and preservation of ---- architecture. ""We cannot know who we are until we know WHOSE we are""-that's what this helps us to discover. Great explanation of people's history from the area. High significance. To preserve the heritage of the tribes who ---- and lived throughout the Southwestern US. Preserving Native American history. Ancient building ---- Historic, educational. It's great so that our children and grandchildren can know their history and how things looked and worked many years ago. It preserves an important part of America's history and culture of the first peoples who lived here. Preservation of local history. Educational, cultural, recreational. Great opportunity to learn about and appreciate our history and the heritage of our indigenous peoples. Historical amazing feat of engineering! Preservation of history to teach all people. Providing historical information to inform the public of awareness of pueblo native. It is the history of our nation, of perseverance/amazing knowledge. Sorry my English is not so good! To appreciate history. To preserve our country's history. To teach and reconnect people. To teach the complete story of our country. Very important and significant. Very significant. It gives a rare opportunity to see and touch pueblo culture. Historic background. It's a cultural heritage site, and should be maintained so future generations can learn about the past. Neat to see a little of how ancestors lived and worked. Great history. It's Indian historical site for 900 years ago.  6000 years ago there were Banpo historical site in China.  They are similar.  It's strong evidence that part of America Indian come from China. Value of early indigenous people; honor and respect heritage of Pueblo people. In my opinion, this park is a vital part of the history of early Native Americans. The history.  Being able to see and touch.  Loved walking through the site. It is a world heritage site demonstrating a little known chiefdom level society in the ---- southwest.  Extremely important to anthropology. History. National heritage to demonstrate native people's life ways. The National significance is at the history the Parks serve, without it the foundation  is lost. Early people of this continent (not Europeans) AMAZING their building technics. So important to understand the history of this place before the Europeans came. Very important, these ruins are vital to our history as a Nation.  Enjoyed it immensely. Our cultural history. Absolutely-history of the region and Pueblo People is not shared in many school curriculums. Learning about early Native Americans as important. Major-I think a lot people ""forget"" about who actually was here before ""discovering America"".  It's just awesome what they built. Major-so early in migration. Presentation of history.  A whole Nation prior to us created some thing amazing out of nothing; history ---- is precious and needs to be protected. American history. It gives us perspective on what life was before we came along and gives us appreciation to our history. To teach people today about the history of our Nation. History, culture. To learn about our early history in the Southwest. Native American cultural significance. History of the Pueblo People.  If we don't invest the legacy of past, how can we shape and mold our youth! Native Culture. New picnic area should be in the shade-drains on walls should be material more authentic. Our core heritage. This Park shows a significant time in nature and advanced ----, it should continue to be funded. This was a wonderful Park for our family to visit (we came with three generations). To preserve the living environment of the original ancestors. Very nice. We need our history-so much European-American population-we need to retain ""our"" history. Yes! Knowing the culture that lived here. Great historical site and opportunity to learn about ancient civilization. Ruins. Draw attention to history of Native peoples of America, appreciate technological achievements. It's link to Native American history and heritage. Passing on our history. Information about previous cultures and how they relate to current ones; history of Americans as a whole. Historical heritage. The Pueblo people story is significant. Historical. Learning history. Historical view of native American culture. Appreciation of native culture. An understanding of pre-colonization history. History of native peoples. I feel it suggests a religious environment. To educate people and continue passing on the culture of the Puebloan people. Very significant. A site of great spiritual and cultural significance ---- to the first peoples to settle this land, they found this land, which is now part of our country sacred. Historical education. Taken in context within the greater ancestral Puebloan world, Aztec forms an integral component of our collective cultural ----. To teach other people about the history behind this amazing place and the people. Very strange example of Native American heritage. Very important as part of our history and heritage. Consideration of culture history, great to come and see. The history of our nation. Valuable! Excellent. Jon Begay is super! This place is a wonderful if not the best illustration of how the ""----"" in N. American ----. Retain history-learn from past. Invention of old things old is good. History we as U.S. citizen need to learn about. Renewed appreciation for the sophistication of prior cultures. Native American heritage. To learn history. Very high. Very important Native American history. Would heritage and information for the public about Native Americans and ancient culture and life ways. Heritage and sharing knowledge of a past culture. Returning an understanding of Native history and culture to the nation as a whole. American Indian heritage. A valuable lesson and tool for learning about our indigenous people. Preservation of culture. An ideal example of what can be done right by the park service! Visual to history and preservation of historic ways and means. It is interesting to come from Chaco to here and compare styles and meanings. Teaching people about who lived here in that time period. Tells about history of the area and about original people. Documentation of history. To see how far we've come and how harsh mother nature can be. 0 Heritage R culture. Preserves history site for contemporary pueblo peoples. I think it's very significant to see such an incredible part of history. Ancient North American history is an important aspect of our Zeitgeist. Native American history culture. History. An excellent example of American history preserved for our shared learning and appreciation. To keep the heritage and culture of the Native people. The most spectacular Greek Kiva in the USA. History of people who lived here. History, heritage. Preservation of history. Preserving of and learning about heritage. The history and help for understanding the early inhabitants of our country before Europeans. To preserve, protect and inform. Historical site. Extremely significant. The park preserves ancestral Pueblo ruins. Native American history. Historical marker of previous culture. How the structure was built and the history behind it. It is a tangible link to one of the many branches of Hispanic tree. Keeping these beautiful works here for all to see and remember for generations to come. Preserves history of original American people. The cultural history of our native people. To better understand the origin of people and settlements that preceded our own. This areas have to be well maintained to know how ancestors in this area lived before. Explaining history of the Aztec world give knowledge to us of what took place. Future generations. Keeping Native American culture alive. To educate individuals about ancestral Pueblos. To show our children pieces of the past. Heritage of Native American archeology. Part of Crucial history in this country of Native Americans-correcting and honoring people and history."
211,Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity NRA,WHIS,"It is in a historic area, because of the town and is a beautiful national park. Conserving locality of nature. To preserve and exhibit the natural beauty of Northern California. Water. It's abundant lake shores as well as it's rich history. It is a great place to have fun. The beauty of it. The necessity of H2O in our nation. This park allows people to enjoy nature gather energy and provide habitat for wildlife. It's a beautiful park and we enjoy coming to it every year.  I was born and raised here and it's my favorite park. Very important. A great place for enjoying and share with family. Awesome. Home. We are recognized. It's pretty. Whiskeytown Lake and Brandy Creek falls. Gold mining. John F. Kennedy dedicated the dam. Keeping beauty where ever we have it. Water storage.  Recreation. Excellent opportunity and true significance to all, improves appreciation and understanding of the world. The beauty of the forest and lake. Preserving natural beauty and history. I feel that the janitors do very good and I love how it's so clean. Yes the park service is a valuable park of America and education. Fantastic. A beautiful place to recreate. Preserve nature and supply water. Access to a ---- nice to be surrounded my nature. Ecensical for learning and having fun in nature. It shows the beauty in our area! Maintaining nature. Power first than fun! The beauty of Shasta county. Extremely important. Nature and fun. George who volunteers on Thurs was so funny and happy and informative on wild life and habitats. To be able to experience nature in a positive way. It does provide a safe and fun place for families with children to play. Family recreation, getting out in nature. Freedom, friendly relationship with mother nature. Beautiful scenery and lakes. Don't know. Community gathering. The nature surrounding it. Our number 1 go to in northern CA! The waterfalls. It is a very nice place. I feel we need these areas preserved for our air and quality of life overall it helps families and our eco system. Safe environment for family and friends. Have fun and a good time with the family. Kennedy spoke here. The beauty of it. We were told that on table had to be left open for the store but as soon as we got up the people at the other table started using both tables for over 2 hrs. Family friendly but needs camp grounds and pay showers. Provide water to local area. 0 Awesome!  Very close to home. Bringing the family together and enjoying your time. Drinking water for state. For the people we need this. Great for family and seeing the JFK sight. There's a lot to do swim, mtn hiking, kayaking etc. To preserve our beauty and protect an animal. Very neat, clean, beautiful and trails from my house.  Been coming here for 30 years. Extreme significance to all generations, for both education and recreation. We love nature, activities and the outdoors, is valuable to families and mental health of people. Beautiful-close to town. Nature preservation. Learning about the life of early settlers here. Food water to California for irrigation. Rest is a fringe benefit. To provide a reliable source of water for ---- and water recreational use here. To rediscover nature and the nation. Rich history, beautiful sight seeing. Nature and clean water. Somewhere ---- families can enjoy the outdoors without casting a lot of money. Natural wilderness and beauty and historic area. Very high. This park, in my opinion, is very important to the area as well the nation. It's regarding water reclamation. It keeps the populace happy so they won't ---- It provides access to outdoor recreation and preserves this area from being developed. As a country, we need to keep these natural places available to the public. It's a beautiful, serene place that is clean and well maintained. A family fun melting place. Swimming. Beautiful nature. Beautiful nature. Don't spill the Whiskey before the party. Historical. It is important to protect our natural resources and wildlife from ""progress"".  Our guide was able to give us lots of information about the lake and wildlife. Water storage/reg. and ag. uses. The natural beauty and history of the area.  To provide a natural place of all the different animals and birds. I think it's great. JFK Dam.  Water ----, animal preservation, recreation. Beautiful park, great program for kids.  Good opportunity for kids to be in outdoors and enjoy the surroundings.  Great junior park ranger program. It is a delight to know that in the 1960's (not so far ago) this lake was chosen to represent the North State to the USA! To preserve the wildlife and lake. Beautiful Park, bird and fish documentary, Recreational Center, Salmon and ---- Delta preservation. It's a memorial park. In my opinion this park was established due to the lake itself and the beautiful scenery. The water resources dedicated by President Kennedy when I was young. Wild land preservation and community recreation. Its history and fauna. New Cal. history, water system. Recreational activity and nature is something the nation doesn't spend enough on. The beautiful lake.  The nice picnic tables.  Safety for kids. Preserving natural beauty. The natural beauty of nature. Enjoying our beautiful lakes and land. Lake, Waterfall Trails. Close by pretty beaches which are safe for little kids to go swimming, nice! A valuable historical and recreational asset to the local area and the Nation. More ----.  More ---- Bus Spot.  More camp areas. The lake and the waterfalls. Recreation on the water.  Storage of water. Beautiful. The waterfalls. It's beautiful, reminder to us all about what we have and need to take care of. Wonderful.  Need more places to sit. Preserving the elegance of nature, and having the opportunity of having places like this to visit. To explore California. It is a national treasure. Don't believe a local park has any national significance. Family time, fun. National pride and preservation. Very nice. It's a great recreational destination. Redding and Whiskey town (specifically Whiskey town) are quite historical and offer a wonderful historical value. Increases appreciation for the diversity of our nation's geography. Kennedy. History and outdoor recreation. California gold rush/iron ----. The dam is the most significant portion of the park in terms of it's impact on the growth of the surrounding communities. Beauty, cleanliness access. It's great. We love it. It's a beautiful part of our community. Offers so much to us. First ---- west and the park was a great experience. Recreation/water diversion for ---- Valley. Unfortunately, it took away indigenous people's land. Whiskey feel into the river. Love the history of the sunken road. Wonderful. Beauty, community, calm relaxation, it shows the beauty of northern California forests and wildlife. The cake of all the family friendly environments/activities av. An area for everyone to enjoy. Historical, recreational, natural history. The lake. Preserving beauty and nature. Beauty, chill atmosphere, nice people. Beauty, natural ----. It is a beautiful park, very peaceful and scenic. This park is a precious gem; there is no other place like it. Lake. It has very clean water and lots of trail and good fishing and swimming. The beautiful lake and trails. The lake and surrounding area is a great ecosystem. Ease of access combined w/beautiful/unique recreation area. A beautiful natural park.  Love the wild life and peaceful setting. It protects the wildlife. Water and wildlife preservation in an area known for railroad/gold/pioneer life, mining and use of water/dams and fishing. Unsure. The national significance is huge.  There are many visitors, a high interest point for all. Need to bring back weekday evening Jr programs, ranger/firefighter. It is nice to have a beautiful area to come and enjoy nature and seeing the lakes and waterfalls. Very important!!  Important natural resource and wilderness access for all to enjoy. Recreational opportunities. The opportunity to get people get out of town, and enjoy nature. Historical, current importance of preservation.  Lilly rocks! Water storage. Whiskey town dumb. Very important and beautiful. JFK visited our park. Recreation. To spend time with a community. Bring you back to nature feel safe and family oriented. The water that it provides-JFK liked it too! Biodiversity. I love the views of the mountains and the beautiful water. Beauty, mountains, ---- dear water, camping. The clear water and vegetation. 0 Very important to provide the public and our children opportunities to access natural adventure and beauty. JFK memorial, beauty. There should be a whisky distillery. Great history and culture. Water storage. Good over all. Dam; J.F. Kennedy was here clean refreshing swim water nature. As a natural Water Shed it is extremely valuable and important. The water. Recreation. Water conservation. Places of recreation, America needs more. Recreational opportunities. To provide a positive experience with nature. Exploring nature and the outdoors. No ----. Recreation, Ag. I don't know. Using tax payer money to set land aside. Didn't think about it. Is it because this is a town in the lake?  or JFK came here. Wonderful! Preservation of nations natural beauty. Cleanliness/history. Whiskey Lake. Great recreation, great fishing. Recreation. Recreational opportunities. Beauty, ecology-enjoyment. The beautiful lake for the locals! Unsure. Great place to relax and unwind. Preservation. Preservation. Clean, peaceful. Love hiking and exploring all the trails. Very good.  We love it.  Great to have a good time in summer. Recreation close to urban area. Nature (----) 0 Nature is beautiful. All natural space like this is significant. They flooded a town and made a dam. Good activities for families. It's beautiful, and a great place to escape Redding's heat. Great place to spend time while in Redding, CA. A place to enjoy nature and get back to the roots of life/living. Preserving our forest. Saving nature? To preserve and enjoy the natural beauty of northern California. Preserve national parks and wilderness. Use of clean water for swimming, etc..  Resource for drinking and beauty! Power, watershed, recreation."
212,James A. Garfield NHS,JAGA,"Some history of our Presidency. Preserves historic legacy of President Garfield and his family and provides glimpses of life and culture of his times. Learning about home state president.  Discovering back ground of a little recognized president. Historical-Garfield's life and living in late 1800s. Enlightens us on the life and times of a U.S. President. In comparison to the other NPS sites, the importance is average to slightly below. It played an integral role in both Garfield's election and American political history! History of country, history of Garfield's life, preservation of what made USA great. To share Garfield's life with us, not many people know much about him, good film and tour. Presidential history-interesting to learn about a president who didn't serve long. The significance of Garfield to our nation. It's a very nice example of a house from the time period.  The inside of the house was cool. The lives of our presidents are extremely important to the nation.  Historical sites like this are great ways to convey information about people that shaped our nation. The legacy of the second assassinated president.  Very interesting.  Nicer of presidential sites I have visited. Excellent volunteer guide-David.  Facilities extremely clean.  Ranger asked about senior pass, so entrance fee was reduced.  We love going to national park sites.  Thank you. It is the home of President Garfield and his family.  After his assassination the home was a living memorial to the president. We learned so much!  Our tour guide, Debbie, was very knowledgeable. Presidential history is important to all Americans. To preserve the memory of ----. Info about campaigns.  Recognition of an outstanding man who unfortunately did not live long enough to be remembered in the way other significant presidents are. Putting in context Garfield's importance in history. Historical importance of one of America's greatest leaders.  Lucretia didn't want us to forget and we haven't. Commemorate the life of a U.S. President. Learning the history of our country. Thank you for preserving Pres. Garfield's life and history. To preserve and teach the legacy of Garfield by learning about him as a person. Keeping history alive. Preserves the home and original belongings of a President. Everything was excellent.  Tour of house was extremely well done. It's national significance is to give insight into the life and personal duty of an American President (James Garfield). Pres. James Lucretia Garfield establishing a state of the art home and farm in ---- area. A history of President Garfield and the 1880's. It is important to learn about other great, not so known, presidents of the U.S. To honor, respect, teach about our 20th president, a native Ohioan. Wonderful facility, wonderful tour guide. Very high.  Today's presidents have much to learn from JAG. James A. Garfield was an exemplary, outstanding, capable man and leader.  Very underrated. This park continues our nation's history.  It brought to life the life and presidency of Garfield and his family. To learn about James Garfield's history and presidency and how he impacted our U.S. history. Opportunity to learn the history of an important era and view lifestyle of political class. Great memorial to Garfield.  Very interesting and well presented. This is significant represents of President Garfield's home, background, personal-professional life.  It is excellently maintained, preserved-presented to the public. Keep history alive. Very informative and preserves history. Garfield was a President of the United States and that is a part of history that I wanted to share with my grandchildren.  I am honored to have been able to live so close to this excellent facility and was able to see it. President of the USA. It is a President's house and honors his life and contribution to our Nation. Connects us to a president who had great potential, but because of his assassination early in his presidency, is not well known today-that is important to U.S. history. Demonstrated a man with a humble financial background, integrity, love of learning, hard work and dedication, became a beloved president. Absolutely necessary for generations to learn how they got here.  Very important for them to learn ETHICS. Historical. I feel it is really important because a president and ---- family lived here. Also it's local. As a momento to Pres. Garfield great exhibits of period living. Memorial to President Garfield and interpretation of his life history. The home ---- 80% original items! A real plus! Beautifully maintained. President Garfield. ---- marvelous memorial for the ----. To learn more about this little known president and the time of 1880's. History is very important to our future. I enjoyed showing my daughter what she learned in Ohio history class. Keep history alive!! Preservation of a modern presidency did not made Garfield ----. Remembering and honoring the past. 0 Presidential national. Very significant. Learning about our national history. In order to keep examples of what great men and women of character look like we need these historic sites. First preserved so well, library unusual ---- of his campaign. Garfield House. Home of President James A. Garfield a forgotten president. Great tribute to Garfield Carol our guide was one of best tour guides we have met. Historical facts and family history. It is the home of a former president and should be maintained. National history. Gives visitors the opportunity to learn about a president whose service to the U.S. was more than the presidency itself. Very important to preserve a history of the way life of past times with the roads to where to ended. The great preservation of one of our local president's heritage. 0 This Park I visited-James Garfield Home in Mentor, OH helps convey the Presidential history of our Nation. Excellent opportunity to learn about an exceptional man and one who would have been an excellent President-very valuable to our history and returning to ---- issues. Presenting history and all of the fascinating details. Commemorating the life of undeservedly overlooked President. Very important learning experience. History of the presidency. History-we need to remember our past to make a better future and be thankful and appreciative of what we have now. To commemorate our 20th President and his contribution to our country.  Also a look into his family's life.  Thank you! Showing younger generations life as it was in years past. We learn so much from the past.  Thank goodness this site was saved for generations to come and learn. Very significant. It's home of a former president and his history.  We learned so much about him we didn't know before.  His wife (family) had foresight to save his/their items. As with all Presidential homes, we learn how our country got to where it is today.  80% of original furnishings is rare.  This house is a real gem. Keep citizens knowledgeable and in touch with US history. Educating about ---- ---- Presidents. Garfield museum. 0 To education people on the important contribution of the 20th president.  Great job.  Enjoyed with children. To show how Garfield rose to being president and how living in NE Ohio affected his journey. Environment of former president preserved. Campaigning he did from his home. To preserve our history telling the life stories of those who have gained freedom for all of us. A president. Historical preservation is as important as environmental preservation.  It ---- great lesson about our history. Because of the historical importance of his presidency. Historical Monument and Education about Pres. Garfield. Educate visitors on the life of Garfield family and memorialize President. Excellent.  The tour was wonderful interesting informative. Critical.  Garfield has enormous potential and his life was cut short.  America needs to be educated on this great man who has been lost in time. Excellent education tool for our 5, 7, 10 year olds.  We love presidential history, and this park helps me understand on history! Extremely significant. For furthered learning of Ohio and National history for future generations. To learn history. Garfield could have been a good president if he had lived.  Learned about the history of campaigning. I am impressed by how complete and well cared for the park is.  Our guide was exceptionally knowledgeable. Preservation of ideals/values along with personal history of an important person, a president of the USA. We enjoy learning about U.S. Presidents and seeing their homes, libraries, etc. The life of our 20th President. Preserving the sites of our Presidents are very important for our future generations. Home of US President. Tour was requested by group of girls ages 6-10 and accompanied by activities and family. Garfield family's embrace of tech and innovation embodies American ideals.  Celebrating JAG's political life provides insight into democratic process.  Rare opportunity to preserve original Presidential belongings. Underappreciated president given recognition long forgotten. Historical information. Lost possibility of reconciliation and ----. Important! National Treasure. We need to preserve our history for all to learn. An important piece of American and Presidential history. Preservation of the history of the American Presidents. Significant. To portray Garfield's life and achievements and keep him from being forgotten. I believe the election of 1880 has many themes that resonate today.  Garfield was a very consequential figure for his time it's important to keep him alive in American memory, and Garfield NHS does that. To enhance knowledge about our president and U.S. history.  Kathy provided an excellent tour. The preservation of Garfield's life. Excellent historical information. Preserving the story of J. A. Garfield and this time period.  Political scene, culture, etc.. Historical importance to the area and the nation. It gives you some information about the political environment during his term in office. Presidential house. HISTORICAL, not recreational. To highlight the unrealized promise of a remarkable ---- relegated to relative obscurity. To teach future generations the importance of a legacy of the past. A presidential home, with the history of the president's life-Garfield-is always significant. Historical significance-noting that politics/conventions are still pretty much the same.  Keep his memory alive. Always valuable to learn about our past presidents!  Helps to understand the man, where he came from! Connection with the past for future generations. Makes history and our nation's progression come alive-very informative. People are able to see President Garfield's background. All very interesting-great job! YES!"
213,Fire Island NS,FIIS,"Important history on Long Island. Home of signer of declaration of independence. Showcases generations of family history and culture.  (William Floyd Estate.) History is kept alive and very important, then and now! HISTORY! We need to keep the history of our nation current! Cultural history. Keeping the past a part of the present. Rich in history, rare and beautiful nature. Life Guards should cover more area, you are charging ----. A family place to go. That is pretty good. Natural ecology.  Biodiversity. Offers very good access to Ocean. Well kept. I am a Long Islander and think the Government does a better job at beaches than the Country or towns! Very important, valuable. Flight ---- It provides opportunity to enjoy out beautiful beaches and appreciate the ecosystem. ---- Good surfing. Permit of happiness. Great place to visit, historical. Highlights beautiful and diverse coast line and environment of the US. That Gen. WM Floyd signed the Declaration of Independence from Long Island and that nine generations of the Floyd family lived there. A natural sea shore. It's very valuable.  This is the only home of a signer of the declaration of Independence. This park's buildings and grounds help us understand the historical context and the local social conditions of the era. It's significant to shipping/navigational history and the preservation of Sunken Forest. ---- ---- leave place to ---- ----. The ocean-sand and beauty. History of U.S.A. and William Floyd. The protective of our shoreline and nature-would like to see the Island continue to be maintained. The early owner of the estate, William Floyd, was a signatory to the Declaration of Independence. History of USA and William Floyd. The national park is a beautiful place for all people to see!  There should be more rangers and they should run the marina! This is one of the most beautiful beaches.  There should be more rangers and less of the concession owner/friends of Watch Hill running this! The park maintains the natural beauty of the seashore and wild life. To allow the seashore to exist for future generations. It is extremely important to the people of NY state and else where who visit the facility. The beauty of the nature!  Mosquito catchers seemed to help a little. Historically important.  Lives, stories, equipment, structure surrounding environment. To preserve, protect Long Island's shoreline and parks, and wildlife. The long history of the Floyd family that saw it all. All natural. Road map to island. Very good history that covers 3 centuries all in one place, the William Boyd estate is open! It's history was incredible and the park should take better care of it.  It needs paint inside. Preserving the history of one of the signers of the declaration of Independence (WM Floyd estate). Indians trade? Definitely. Natural beauty and preserve habitat. It is beautiful please keep it open.  ---- fees the same. Wildlife, scenic ocean, easy boardwalk. Capture of nature and the past. Sharing historical, factual information. Yes. Our beautiful beaches.  Boat access from the Great South Bay.  Wonderful place to bring children. The history of three generations from the 1700s to 1900s. This park is important to U.S. history during colonial times. As a natural barrier beach (----) ---- the greater ----.  Also FINS requests saving 33 miles from being despoiled by Robert Moss-otherwise it would be passed. It has amazing history as well as a beautiful natural setting.  Then sunken forest was incredible. Excellent tour of the William Floyd estate.  This park should be promoted more.  Very hard to find.  Web site just awful. Maintaining a natural seashore on a barrier island. It is a gift to the citizen of the US.  A few of its places that are free ---- of our tax dollar. Important lighthouse protecting the ship traveling along the South shore of Long Island. Sunken Forest has specimens that are rarely seen by public. Please, why is beach not ADA compliant and handicapped accessible?  A ramp would be useful to all patrons.  Thank you. Barrier beach to Long Island."
214,Abraham Lincoln Birthplace NHS,ABLI,"Lincoln played a pivotal role in this nation's history and his humble beginnings and life story reminds us what it really means to be a part of the United States. Pretty significant, awesome history.  AMERICA! Lincoln is a pillar of our country and his legacy is important to every American. Honors one of our greatest Presidents.  Encourages National pride.  Provides restful place to reflect upon Nation's history. Thrilled at the presentation on history ---- ---- our president. Very significant one of if not the most important leaders of our nation. Travel pass by to Niagara Falls and feel like stop by here because we will go to Washington DC later on. It gave an understanding of Abraham Lincoln's life and birth place.  Was interesting to learn about the historic background of his life. Very important. ---- Very important. Birth place of a great man. Abe was a great President, and understanding his life is important to understand that is important. Abe Lincoln is one of our greatest Presidents.  It's great to experience his life and personal history. Excellent information. Very significant. Birth place of President who over saw nations greatest struggle in civil war. Lincoln's birth and ----. Remembering the important things in life. The presentation of our countries legacy for the future generations ----. It contains the birth place and tells the history of ---- ---- most well known and celebrated human ----. Our history. To honor and educate of the life of Abraham Lincoln. Great for ----. Lincoln was a great man!  Nice to be where is ----. A tribute to a great man, great president and great human being. Abraham ----. Birthplace and early life of Abe Lincoln. Memorial heritage site of Lincoln. Very nice. Lincoln was born here and the US is one worthy today because of him. Memorializing our greatest President and his principles. A true tribute to a very fine gentleman-President. Provide a link to our past. Birth site of A. Lincoln-very important to show humble beginnings. Birthplace of a president. History. Every American owes it to the memory of Pres. Lincoln to visit at least once during their lifetime. The birthplace of the greatest American president needs preservation for generations to come. It represent the historical moral structure of the U.S. We must preserve our best. birthplace of our greatest president. History Abraham Lincoln beautiful! Understanding how his early life helped to shape and build character of one of our nation's greatest leaders. History of a great influential man. Presidential. The national significance is to preserve history and the birth of our 16th president. To carry on history. It is the birthplace of one of our greatest presidents in the history of the United States. To ---- a great ----. The place is ---- great! ---- Commemorate the birth and life of a man who had ---- influence for the ----. Yes. To learn where Americans values come from. To help learn more about the Lincoln's. Learning more about President Lincoln younger years. Abraham Lincoln birth place. Abraham Lincoln history. Abraham Lincoln History. All. Nostalgic home of the greatest president. Allows you to feel closer to him to know he lived here. Recognize one of the most important America ----. From humble beginning to greatness is possible. Pays honor to a great man. KY History. Abraham Lincoln was probably ---- greatest president. A very ---- who led this ----. It is the birth place of one of our most influential leaders. Presidential history. Very significant.  Very clean and historic.  We love Kentucky. The birth place of such a great leader and statesman should be honored and preserved. Birthplace of ---- ----. To teach history to ---- ----. A ----. ---- History and tradition. Very significant. Lincoln won Civil War freeing slaves and ----. It shows the birthplace of a past president and shows what formed him. The birthplace of (arguably) the greatest American. We cannot every forget how one person's leadership can move a people away from the inhuman act of slavery. Honors a great President! The history behind Abraham Lincoln and the way life was back then. History of the ----. Lincoln birth place. Very important-need to know the history of our presidents. All national parks are worth it. Abe Lincoln was awesome! How the founding fathers selected the president. It serves as a symbol honoring the ---- important American ---- to ever lives. Lady in front ---- brochures explained thanks! Mary Ann. One of our greatest presidents. To learn about our 16th President. To remind us the ---- To see where one of the Presidents was born. Lincoln ---- out no a stand like other parks. To honor a former president. Abraham's birth place. The birthplace of one of the greatest Presidents ever. Honoring the 16th President Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln's history and significance to the nation and Civil War. To preserve birthplace and history of our Union. An educational shrine to one of our greatest presidents. Historic. History. Lincoln and his heritage as a great president. Important person, important place, glad to see it preserved. Preserving the birth place of a great leader for future generations. Learning about Abe Lincoln, an important president. Honors one of the greatest presidents of the USA. Memorial to a great president available for young ----. Lincoln! High, ---- most important president was born ----. It's neat to see the birth place of an influential leader of our country, we brought our youth group. Continue good maintenance of facilities. It is important to keep our nations history in tact for generations after us to appreciate and understand the achievements president Lincoln made. This park is the birth place of one of our nations greatest presidents. Brings a good ---- about a ---- his live as a achievement. Our past helps define our future.  So important these days to remember Lincoln worked hard to keep us united. Lincoln's achievements and mission to see our nation free for all people in fullness of charity are ---- remembered on Thanksgiving here. Birthplace of one of our greatest presidents. This is the birthplace of our greatest president. History. It represents a mighty man and shows how his life impacted the rest of our lives. It's in honor of one of the most important presidents in the history of America. Knowledge of one of the instrumental persons responsible for abolishing slavery. It shows the early American spirit and a great man's humble beginnings. Helps us to understand where we came from and where we are today as a nation. History of Lincoln. To listen and see the importance and value of Abe Lincoln's life and history. Great historical significance!  This national park is the ""SCUL"" of all national parks in America. The birthplace and ---- ---- president of the U.S.A.. The importance of our 16th president who worked to abolish slavery. Birthplace of a famous president, ----. Birthplace of one of our greatest American leaders and how people from all means can do amazing things. Very significant to maintain national culture. This being an election for president year it is a great reminder of what values we should look for in our future president. Very important! Abraham Lincoln changed the world! Birth of sixteenth president. Commemorates an important American. History that should not be forgotten. Honoring our past-embracing the present. This park recognizes one of our best leaders. Lincoln's birthplace and his rise to be president! Lincoln, probably greatest President influenced by history. The history of our great President, Abe Lincoln, the children learning more. Traveling in KY and stumbled upon this ----.  Great tribute to A. Lincoln.  Glad I stopped. There is no other parks in the U.S. that has more historical significance! Historical info on Lincoln! The historic landmark (birth place) of the nations greatest President. Abraham Lincoln's life was save here as a boy. History and family-to rise up and succeed."
215,Booker T. Washington NM,BOWA,"Booker T Washington birth place. Interesting look into the past and ----. Booker J. was born here. Booker T. born here, raised here. To preserve U.S. history for future generations, as well as nature and the wildlife. A fantastic park showing the story of a very influential African-American. Yes, very important. Booker T. Washington was born and freed at this park/plantation. The legacy ---- ---- ---- ---- history (great educational ----). Of great significance. Booker T. was born ---- ---- here. Born ---- Fabulous cultural restoration. Recognizing important contributions to our history and educating our youth. Learn about Booker T. Washington as an educator and head of Tuskeegee University. Of great significance historically; personally for what can be achieved if one seeks and it takes advantage of opportunities. Educational. Booker T. Washington ---- plantation. Home place of Booker T Washington. Booker T. Washington was born and freed here. Learning about Booker T. and slavery.  Awesome buildings. Life of a slave that was freed and achieved great things driven by education. Slavery and progress ----. Promoting the important history of African-Americans and their contributions to our country. To learn about life in the 1800s and Booker T. Washington's legacy. History is important to our present. Learning experience way of life in 1800s.  Importance of slavery in American history and the willingness to overcome adversity. Educational and worth having. History of slavery and celebration of a great educator. Educational, to learn about a man who worked to better the lives of black people. Educational. Great all-American success story. Great history! Great to learn about.  Very educational. It think it's crazy to see how the slaves lived and how they had to survive. Washington was born and freed here. Yes.  Shows the very poor rising above.  He was a slave on this plantation, now named for him. Highlight importance of never ----small beginning. Booker T. Washington's birthplace and where he was freed from slavery. It really shows the efforts of one man to do his part in changing culture for the good. The birth and freedom of Booker T. Washington. This park represents how any man or woman can come from nothing and do great things.  It shows the freedom of this country and how we have grown. Very important! Yes. Born here, freed here-origin story. The Civil War, civil rights.  A look to the past to help the future of our nation. Educating on the after-effects of abolition through the eyes of Booker Washington. Education and overcoming adversity. History of America. Slavery or agriculture. Upkeep of history so not lost for youth coming up. This is very significant and his BTW accomplishments are still not fully recognized for how he changed African lives back then. Monument historical important. Life on a small slave-owning plantation importance of education inspirational life and words. Booker T. Washington was born and freed here. He was born here and freed here and he made a major contribution to our country (Africa Americans). It is important because he was born here and raised here. Valuable history of Booker T Washington. Very nice, very clean. Very important history is remembered and taught. Illustrate life of an important black man in history. History of slavery to farm life. Significant for learning about civil rights, post civil war history. Raises the import use of the man I issue slavery. Born here, freed here; farm animals; trails. Booker T's legacy. Great for learning about African-American history. It is vital for telling the story of African Americans. It signifies the importance of the life of Booker T. Washington. Truly inspiration by Mr. Washington. Better learning. Show's slave life.  And I wish this should never have happened. To learn about slavery. Yes it is very important to know about Booker T. Washington's contribution to our nation. Learning about the culture and life style of races.  Love it!  Booker T. Washington. I don't know.  A great African American leader is bringing about racial equality was born here.  But there really should be something more about this ----. Major significance, education is the engine of positive change. Rising up out ----. To maintain and inspire the spirit of self reliance and pride. B.T. Washington's contribution (courage and determination) to the African American race in our country. Led to betterment of African American community through his inspiring example at educational advancement and efforts towards economic opportunity, ---- ---- all learn from ----. Booker T. Washington was born and freed here. National history especially importance of African American history. Booker T. Washington was a great leader. Very ---- ----. Life as a slave, Booker Washington industries. Very nice. Highlights the importance of Booker T. Washington, this is invaluable. To show the perseverance, determination and patience of an influential man. Very significant in helping USA become a welcome and cool place for all. This monument is very significant for all Americans black and white Booker T is model of preserving. Booker T. Washington's contribution to more education to African American and economic opportunity. The historical aspect was very touchy moving and very emotional.  It was quite a sight to behold and the learning experience was deep for my son and I. Shows early slave conditions and how one raised himself to great heights. Booker T. Washington shows what determination can do, and also shows bit of extreme poverty and discrimination what one can do. Booker T. Washington was born here and freed here. Learn about Booker T. Washington, life as a slave and what former slaves do after emancipation. Historical impact and cultural significance. It is important to remember slavery-as painful as that may be-as part of our nation's heritage.  It cannot be ignored. To let everyone realize the struggles black Americans underwent prior to and after the Civil War.  And Booker T.'s contributions to education. Very important to slaves' freedom and education. Excellent service from the park employees. Very significant in our history and educating the young generation on our past. Very important part of history to be known. I learned a lot about B.T. Washington that I did not know.  A lesson learned is that if you really want to better your life, keep pursuing your dreams. Describes the heritage and over coming of a visionary! American history is important and significant. We love the history of Booker T.  His amazing life... and all he accomplished. The park informs visits of the significant barriers African American endured.  The significant role slaves had in the economic system of the South."
216,Federal Hall NMem,FEHA,"The George Washington statue and his desk inside are key early American artifacts and Portal is a real treat for New Yorkers. I attended the Art Show Portal it was wonderful.  I also enjoyed the George Washington history. Portal Art.  Loved it.  George Washington history was very interesting. Historic value. Federal Hall is important for understanding the founding of the U.S. History. Important to history of America's. Beginnings of American government. The history of our Nation. History ----. Historical and cultural. History. Very historic building. Great historic significance! Washington's Inauguration. ---- ----. Nations's first Capital.  Significant contribution to our history. Yes, very significant to the history and culture. This Park gave great information on NY.  Gave great history and very pleasant employees. Highly significant for G. Washington as 1st President and illustration of ---- promise needed to establish permanent Capital. More valuable than imagined before Tour. The early history of the United States and New York City. First President inaugurated here. Fascinating!  Very historic building. History and nostalgia. Early American history. I love history-this was beautiful and educational. History. The Portal Art Show was great and hope to see it again. I know-but no time to tell you. ---- ---- significant because of ----. Birth place American government, George Washington Inauguration, Customs and Treasury. Important history regarding the beginning of U.S. and Government we know today. The inauguration of George Washington took place here. Very significant!  Outstanding account of early U.S. Gov't. The birth place of our Government. The spot where George Washington took the oath of President and became first President ----. George Washington inauguration. An amazing place to learn about the history of our Nation! An opportunity to learn a little bit more about our history. Early history-all important. George Washington inauguration place. History. It moves you with knowledge of the past; pure history! Lovely ---- ---- students to learn ---- history of America. The history of George ---- ---- inauguration.  Also American ----. This is where George Washington became Father of our Country-took the oath of office. Cultural and historic are fantastic art. First Capital. George Washington history was good to know. The playing music exhibits was ----.  The majority of the visit events ---- make like ---- together trash and only cluttered up the place. Origin of our country of government. George Washington ---- ----!!  Our tour quick.  Wonderful!  May 12 11:00 AM. History of our society.  Excellent presentation. Living example of the very beginning of our country and our economic system. Very important historic building. Very historic. Very significant (George Washington inauguration at Federal Halt, NYC. George Washington. Remind the world that NYC was a U.S. capitol where George Washington became 1st president. A great place for art and culture. History. George Washington was here. G. Wash inauguration. Historical lesson. Key location in establishment at nation. History of the founding of our country. U. S. history. Heritage of all Americans.  Historical respect. Essential to the ---- ---- of our ---- history. Has a lot of importance for the founding of the country moral principles it's foundation. Very important. It is important because of experience to the other people the ---- is of the country and it's history. National significance ---- park is to explain and learn ---- ---- American history. Very important. George Washington! Awesome. Brings history to life. The foundation of the US government. It has been an important part of American history since before the revolution. The history here is understanding, and the temporary status of government and a great reminder that nothing is  permanent.  A++. The significance of ---- and ---- is to learn about the nation, ----. Site of first inauguration. A historical site ---- ---- country was founded. Historican. The national significance of this past U.S. very helpful and monumental. It is one of the places where our nation began. Historic. The building is amazing and the Staff as well.  They made me aware how important Federal Hall is to America. Start of our Nation. Our Guide was great (man) I forgot his name. Historical. Inauguration of first President. Historical. It gives/provides an opportunity to actually stand in the spot/places where our country's important starts and firsts actually occurrence invaluable priceless. Culture. History. American government history in the early years. Inauguration, governance. Very significant. Early Government of U.S. Highly significant-a must to see. Historical and educational significance. The history very significant. Extremely significant. American history. Washington's Office. Historic site. Important history of our Nations's beginnings. To understand the significance of Federal Hall in relation NY history and the Nation. The ---- ----. ---- LA history ----. Historical significance. Inauguration of first President in heart of downtown NYC! Of course. The guy that gave the Tour was awesome. This Park has ---- ----. This Park has phenomenal history. Very important to American history. Federal Hallis important to the history of our country and NYC. U. S. and NYC history. It represented and housed many of our Nation's beginning sectors. History. Excellent and crucial to U.S. History. George Washington and his inauguration. Birthplace of America ----. American government beginning. This park gives an amazing idea of the past.  It is significant to the nation because history was made here. Amazing park!  Very significant and important. American history. This park gives people the opportunity to understand the importance of the founding of the nation. Inauguration New York's place in national history. Birthplace of our Federal Govt. It is important to keep our history alive.  So many America and ---- know the history of our country. Historical value. Almost seems like one of the birth places of the U.S.  Where George Washington took his oath is worth preserving time. Extreme. It shows the importance of ---- ---- in our ---- ----. It's Federal Hall.  Everything in and around it is of national significance. First inauguration of a ---- ----. The founding of our government. First inauguration of Pres.  First meeting of ---- ----. Inauguration of GW, foundation of Bill of rights. It is the history of ---- countries ---- ---- ----. The beginning stamp act. I really like this building and ----. 1st inaugural site-not treasury-Bill of Rights. A profitable ---- in ---- history. I love the amazing history of my ancestors! It's distraction as the site of the nation's first capitol and George Washington's inauguration. Great historical site. It is very significant. The beginning of it all. Very important history! I love it! It's important history of New York. The national significance to both the country and city of NH. Learn history. George Washington was sworn in as president here. It's the birthplace of our government, so it's one of the most significant sights. Shows Washington's importance to USA. Our country's history and the architectural significance. George Washington's inauguration. First time George Washington sworn in for presidency. George Washington inauguration. Our connection to George Washington and our independence. Very important to remembering our past. Immense historical and cultural significance. Establishes a link to our roots and values.  Service to our nation. Establishment of First Amendment rights.  Swearing in of first POTUS.  Reflection of nation's ----. This park is the invaluable asset to American history and the nation, very glad it is a park! AMERICA! Marks the site of George Washington's inauguration. To inform and explain the importance of the U.S. history as it relates to government. Where Washington took Oath of Office. To show the importance of a building that has been used for the first inauguration, a treasure, and an important mark on history. History and Government starting point. Protect our history. Site George Washington's ---- inauguration. Very significant to history and understanding of New York and Country. ----. George Washington's Presidency. Washington ----. History of the Nation. George Washington inauguration. George Washington, love him! Foundation of our country and very significant. Learning about ----. The original seat of gov't and the site of Pres. Washington's inauguration. Commemorating and memorializing George Washington's inauguration and the founding departments of our nations government. Several things, but we didn't learn much of it from the ranger tour-the woman missed the basics. History!  The park service does a great job conveying that many ---- were here all with their own significance."
217,Salt River Bay NHP & PRSV,SARI,"Great for generations to come. Unique ---- and ---- to history. I don't know. Complicated history of the Caribbean. The history surrounding Columbus landing here up thru today. Historical and interest biology/salt water ecology. Columbus landing. Improvements are being made but more is necessary and should be considered. Landing site of Christopher Columbus. Early settlement of pre-historic people and Columbus ----. Landing of Columbus 1493 site. Historical landing site of Columbus' crew on St. Croix. Columbus landing/site. The underground pieces of pottery found in the sand. It was good to be here. Historical and ecological. Teaching a part of U.S. history. The view. Hard to find limited hours.  Original civilizations.  Columbus landing.  Seven Flags and history of Islands. Overall view of area. Learning abut history of St. Croix. Natural beauty AND historical relationship of Columbus' landing. Natural history and habitats. Beautiful spot and history. It was very nice to see and to learn more about the Island. All history of the U.S. Virgin Islands is very important and unique and should be preserved. The way it is placed. Environmental, history. Very significant. Historical-Columbus' 2nd voyage. History, the ---- of our Nation. Undeveloped area left as is. History of Indian population on islands and impact of everyone's occupation. Yes!  very Very significant in many respects. To short a visit to say. Nature, historic background. The park was alright and this event was great. Very significant as the earliest contact of the European exploitation of the America's and transfer of Africans to the America's. Great site seeing and info about island. Important to know and tell the historic past. Beauty, history, preservation, education. Very important!  Please keep it open! Provides history and info of island. Christopher Columbus landing here. The whole history is very interested. History of natives is very important and should be preserved as National heritage. Interaction between American's and colonizers. Good choice, nice location. Wonderful and informative volunteer, very interested and enthusiastic in sharing the resource. It's a good place to get away from regular life, relaxing. Yes very informational on native people. Very historical for VI at some find naturally fascinating. Natural beauty, history. The history is amazing. It was very cool to see Columbus landing spot. Learning about history of area and local culture.  Park service volunteers were very helpful. Good to know the real story and nice to see the place and have been there. Great history of the island. Highly important. The history from Tlanos/Ceribs to Columbus is important.  The site, the river, flora and fauna and history of the home ---- and species."
218,Wupatki NM,WUPA,"Native American history. Very important to preserve American parks ----.  Thinks ---- the team and there ---- ---- ----.  They were friendly and ---- and ---- time to explain their jobs. History of the Pueblos. The cultural heritage and ---- ----. Shows historic community, and gives an understanding of the native history and culture. Culture. It shows the early history of the people who lived here.  Shows us Indian life and housing.  Also the geographical feature. Fits in well with Sunset Crater and Walnut Creek as snapshots in time. History of life. Heritage site to show native culture/history. The history of this region. Preserve First Nation-culture. Preserving history for future generations. Experiencing Singua culture. Preserve as much as we can. History matters! Preserves Native American culture. The incredible endurance of the people who lived here.  Our heritage-Native American or not. Learning about the Sinaqua People.  Very tangible artifact compared to other Indigenous Peoples. Historical value, Indian, Native culture. For education about previous civilizations. Very significant. Connection to native people. Culturally significant. Helps to show the environment of our original Americans. The way of life of the people that lived here-very different and unfamiliar to most of us. Amazing contribution skills. Very important. It is an example that people lived and worked here before Europeans came. This park demonstrates the evolution of the ancient people from hunter-gatherer to agricultural cultures. Very informative well marked trail lets you go hands on when possible. Archaeological and cultural preservation. Native history. It's a part of our history and should be preserved. The history, it is not taught in schools anymore-this is NEEDED! Insight to how native people lived. Ancient civilizations. Preservation of the past and info about the people is extremely valuable. Cultural history. Very important to our history and culture of the area. History, Native American culture nature. Very important to save history, Indian ruins, etc. Very interesting. Yes. The ---- ---- and volcano is different. Good. Spectacular VC. Cultural ruins. I enjoyed the ruins. Cultural unity. Early diversity. Tangible link to the human history of the Southwest. History and diversity. History that is significant to all of us. Preserving an important view into a period of history. Ancestral preservation. The significance of this park is its ties to history of the Native Americans. Yes. Preserves priceless history.  Keep doing it! Unique and visceral insight into an important and less understood (generally) culture. That it is very beautiful and large. Learning about life of the original Americans, informs our choices in 2016. Good. To honor and preserve Native American history. Local volcanoes preservation, Indian structure preservation. Helps us learn about our culture and history. Showcasing the indigenous way of life before Euro settlers destroyed it all together. Learning the history of those who first inhabited this country. Preservation of pre-Columbus/American history. The preservation and education of our beautiful history. ---- rich history of ----. Significance in the national history. To ---- and not lose our heritage. Major historic interest. History of America. Preservation of historic ruins. Preserving history. To show how Native Americans lived and to show the history of their integration with ---- settlers. To learn about native American culture. Great cultural education. To educate people-history. Very good place to learn about natives. A tremendous significance and valuable to learning and understanding our history. High. Knowing our history. Learn about history. Native American heritage and the ecological significance-beauty. The park should be preserved for future generations, not only for it's beautiful, but for historical aspects. Historical use. Historical. The hope history. Preservation of an example of Native American culture that the U.S. has destroyed. Preserve nature and history of the land. Great example of the culture and history of the native people of the America's! How the Native Indians lived."
219,Colonial NHP,COLO,"USA birth place. Preserving history.  Gave me a better appreciation of how our nation was formed. Yes. Birthplace of the nation due to the earliest settlements. It is the region of the first settlement. Agree with the relationship to our nation. It's important to understand that we are a nation of many races, social standings and cultural differences but one people under God.  We must learn from mistakes of the past or be doomed to repeat them. Birth place of our nation: Jamestown. There is a beginning to everything ""what"" ---- I ---- know, I should know, I love to know. Tremendous.  It marks the earliest point in America and also depicts our complicated relationship with its Native American Indian populations. The first permanent English settlement in North America and first rep. gov't. in nation. Very important to historical significance to our nation. It's the first permanent English settlement. It's of highest significance. It's the most important site in our country's history (even though my ancestors helped settle Staten Island!) Without Jamestown, who knows what the world would look like today? First permanent English settlement in north America. It was the 1st permanent English settlement in N. America! First permanent English settlement in north America, established in 1607. To preserve the earliest history. It helps us understand how our nation station. Birth place. Our beginnings! All heritage started here at Jamestown. First town. American colonial history. The first permanent north American settlement founded in 1607.  The beginning of the United States of America. The first permanent English settlement in North America. True history that otherwise would be lost.  The re-actor of the day was great, along with the movie provided. Birth place of America, created a culture that was in place for many years and has slowly changed. 1st permanent English settlement in N. America 1617. Early American history preservation. Essential early American history.  Archaeological findings. First English Settlement in America. This is a where it all started! Birth of nation. The significance is that this park is the site of the first permanent English settlement. First established colony of the United States. Start of our country. First permanent settlement. The birthplace of America. Our starting as a nation. 1st arrival of English to USA in 1607. Birth place of America. Birth place of one nation. First settlement in America, great archaeology. It proves that we have a God-based heritage.  The settlers were flawed but perseverant. Major-the beginning of USA. Origins of constitutional law in the U.S. as well as birthplace of American republic. Our nations first permanent settlement and first seat of government. Saving history. Signifies the beginning of our country. Up dating history. Yes.  The historical importance of how our nation started.  Needs to be more a part of our public education for our children. 1st permanent English settlement 1607. 1st permanent settlement of English colony. History of our nation. The actual 1st settlement site. The first permanent American settlement, dating back to 1607. Very fast U.S. settlement. birthplace of English America. Great memorial site of the Revolutionary War. Noting the beginnings of the colonies and our country! To preserve the history for generations to come. High. The beginning of the Colonies. End of revolutionary war, Cornwallis' surrender. It is vitally significant as the site of the  most important victory for Colonial Forces in the Revolutionary War. Jamestown settlement.  Learning the history of our nation. Extremely important. Really this is where America today started.  It is where it all began (Jamestown). Great part of history. ---- shows us the importance of the beginning of a new experiment. ---- the ---- of a country ---- had to ---- Keeping the history of our country alive. Showing the history of our nation. It was the final battle that made America free."
220,Morristown NHP,MORR,"I find this Park a great learning tool for all ages.  I took my grandchildren ages 9 and 6, now they have some history to share. American history. Winter encampment of Colonial army in 1779-80 during Am. Revolution.  Battle of Trenton significance two years earlier. George Washington, American Revolution. It represents the beginning of America as a free country and the Revolutionary War efforts. Great for learning local history. George Washington's headquarters and original artifacts. Pivotal in U.S. gaining its independence. This site was Washington's headquarters and many great minds met to form our victory:  the birth of our nation. Great for learning history love outdoor things. Amazing and essential. To give a view of what the soldiers endured during the revolution. To teach about American History. Continental Army ---- during Revolutionary War. Park employees very unprofessional-would be better to use volunteers. Tells the story of struggles, brotherhood and leadership in the history of Revolutionary War. Very significant to the Birth of our country Washington Head Quarter Morristown NJ. Washington HQ, Morristown, NJ.  Very important historical site in the American Revolution. The history of our nation is so important to all of us.  This site is so much a part of that. Crucial to New Jersey history and revolutionary war history. History, lifestyle of Continental Army, culture of the 1700s. History of the beginning of our nation.  Fight for independence. Excellent connection to the Revolutionary War. The park has helped me to learn much about the revolution and Revolutionary era. The site of George Washington's headquarters. Washington's campaigns.  The birth of our nation. It holds the foundation of planning for where we are today; e. g., independence of our nation. Understanding of issue of Revolutionary War. Understanding to difficult (terrible) conditions.  George Washington army lived through in 1779-80. It captures the ---- of General Washington and his troops in the Revolutionary War. Preserving the history of the beginning of this nation. Without this area, our nation would not exist. Part of the revolutionary history and G. Washington! It links together crucial locations in the countries history. Revolutionary war. To commemorate Washington's presence in NJ during revolutionary battles and historical national events. American history. Washington headquarters during the revolutionary war! Highlighted revolutionary times, history and sacrifice ordinary citizens endured for freedom. Revolutionary war. The history behind the buildings. Founding the country-revolutionary era history. To teach people about historical moments in American history. During the war, Washington stayed there, it's important. Absolutely! It taught us the sacrifice made by the ---- army during the ---- to help us retain our independence from the British. The park as of great ----- value.  Learned so much from the ---- and tour. Huge, needs to be preserved and maintained for our kids and their children. To show the hardships that our continental soldiers faced during the American revolution. George Washington was outside of Virginia doing miraculous things. Washington held an army together during the worst winter. Not sure, ranger too busy with her computer game and movie bleached out by lights on. Hamilton lived in Morristown with Washington-cool. Braver man never lived. Great movie. An important historical site from the revolutionary war. Remembering service to country sacrifice for our country and greater purpose. G. Washington slept here while the army froze. George Washington's army succeeded in proving their gold after a hard year. Ok. Worst winter breeds the best army. Winter worse than Valley Forge we learned from the video. As the Father of our Nation, it's a very important site. History. The chance to learn about the American Revolution and the struggles the Continental Army faced. Winter was the greatest challenge to the soldiers. It played a large part in the Revolutionary War because the continental army ---- here. A place for resting during the war. It is part of the history of the founding of our country.  We have to preserve out heritage. Important history that more people should know. Reminder of the nation's history. Founding of our nation extremely significant! It shows the courage of the army through nature's hardships of winter! Part of out nation's history.  Important! History/trail. Extremely important!  Gives great information on the difficulties of the Revolutionary War-excellent. George Washington-great pride that he stayed here.  National significance-General and President. Cold, snow bitter ice helps keep us cool on this hot summer day, good way to remember history. Soldiers suffered where today dogs poop is a poor memorial to the sacrifice. It shows how our ancestors fought for our freedom. Highly significant, home to George Washington during the revolutionary war. To remind every one of the sacrifices that the Patriots had to endure to be free men. Historic background on American Revolution. Difficult, critical time for the army that gained the independence of a new nation and survival through a brutal winter. Excellent opportunity to appreciate sacrifices made by ordinary people to establish this country. George Washington's preparation for war and how the soldiers persevered! Excellent. Very high; very good. Historical reminder of struggle for freedom. This park is part of the history of the formation and foundation of our nation.  What could be more significant. Well preserved relic of the revolutionary war. It establishes NJ as one of the significant places during the revolution of our country. Morristown to me is the spot where George Washington finally got his army to become the U.S. Army. The history of the American revolution in this area is very important to educate and inform! George Washington and troops stayed in Morristown for two winters.  NJ was key in the American revolution. Selfless dedication by home owner and GW/Staff and army at Jockey Hollow. Scale 1-10, 7-1/2. Historical. Protecting the army in the most difficult year for an encampment ---- all about improving logistics and supply. Jockey Hollow allows us to see where one of the Revolutionary War Encampments was.  The Wick House helps to illustrate the impact on the citizens.  The trail gave us a first hand look at the terrain the soldiers faced. I love this park I hike there every day with my dog. Without the key leadership of Gens. Washington and Nathaniel Greene during this winter (1779-88), the continental Army may have disbanded. Very important-critical period for Army and Militia fighting the British to establish U.S.A. It helps preserve the history of the Revolutionary War. History of war with England-awesome! A glimpse into the harsh conditions of the Revolutionary War for the average solider and the bivouac for Washington and his officers. Understanding a critical period in our history. Revolutionary war. Saving our Rev. War history and teach future generations. Our heritage and what our nation was founded upon hence our visit on July 4th weekend. Washington's ---- during Rev. war, Army vs. Rev. war encampment. Important-valued! The significance of this sight is it shows where important events took place in our history. Very significant! History kids get to learn more about the American history. Washington was first president. 1st national history park. The significance is educating the public on our nations history and it's birth.  These parks should be free year round so the nation can learn it's history. To capture and remember of Morristown's significance in the American Revolution. Anything related to the American Revolution is worth keeping and remembering. Foundation of our country. Military capital of the revolution. To remember. As a winter camp during the birth of our nation it is very important that we take care of this site. Very important part of revolutionary times.  The area should promote it more. History-first war in America. I am German. History also first park national established by NPS. Birth of our nation! History of the American Rev. It helps us understand our heritage and the significance of our past. Showing the role of NJ in revolution and the sacrifice for our freedom."
221,Saratoga NHP,SARA,"Extremely important-turning point of the revolution. Exhibit outside didn't work when button pushed. It's the site of the turning point of the American Revolution and many skirmishes. Educate the public about the importance of Saratoga and honor those who fought. Turning point of American Revolution. It puts flesh on the ---- of history. Site of a turning point in the Revolutionary War. Significance in revolutionary war, as a pivotal series of events that ultimately led to the American victory. Turning point in the revolutionary war. Turning point of the revolutionary war. To experience the environment in which the most important battle of the American Revolution took place. The turning point of the American Revolution, leading to America's Independence. Remembrance of the Revolutionary War and specifically the importance of the Battle of Saratoga. Battle of Saratoga. It was one of the battles they thought we would lose.  It was the turning point of the war. Turned the tide of the Revolution-our citizens should know this. Turning point of Revolutionary War. Provides history of significant battle that helped our nation become independent. The transitory nature of life, contrasted to the grandeur and scope of the parkland, reminds one of the historical impact of a short battle among a few people. The turning point of the American Revolution. Revolutionary battlefield turning point in war. It was the turning point of the revolution...without it we might not be here. This is the turning point of the American Revolution.  I have been coming here for sixty years.  We bring all our visitors here. It was the turning point of the American Revolution. Saratoga National Park is of utmost significance to the American Revolution. Turning point of the revolution. A better understanding and appreciation of our American heritage is important and welcomed particularly when you can stand or the actual site of battle. Pivotal role in the victory over the British and in the founding of the United States. Preservation of land and history. It was the turning point of the revolutionary war. Excellent demonstration and explanation of a key event in the American Revolutionary war.  Very informative. Key moment in nation's history commemorated and interpreted. Revolutionary War importance. Reminder of the difficulties of security our freedoms. Helped, win the revolutionary war over the British. If I remember correctly this was the location of the ---- war of the American troops over the Britain for the American revolution.  P.S. I am calling this out a walk plus ---- or culture. The first military blow struck for our independence.  The reason why France entered the war and in the end helped win the war.  Amazing Revolutionary history. Every American should visit this important place in our history, Saratoga was the turning point of revolution.  I hadn't been there since I was a kid. Turning point of the Revolutionary War. Regional military and commercial significance by the forming of the nation. This question insults my intelligence. Revolutionary battle field-war history nation's ---- We enjoyed the guide by phone and the presentation in the beginning. To teach others of important roles of hope in our history. It was the turning point of the war.  Had the Battle of Saratoga had a different outcome, the French wouldn't have come to our aid and tipped the scales in our favor. Revolutionary War battlefield, a significant victory for the Americans. Very important, a ""Gem"".  This is the site that was decisive victory of Continental Army over Britain.  Turning point.  Brought French in to Rev. War on side of colonies!!  Very important-showed how colonists came to reinforce Gates men.  Numbers swelled over the battle. This is a very important park as the final outcome of the revolutionary war may have been decided here! This park shows our country's history and the spirit of our nation. Extremely significant! Victory of Colonists over British forces upsetting British plans to squash Independence movements. One crucial part of our history made vivid. It highlights and preserves one of the more important battle grounds of the American revolution. The surrender of an entire British army which ---- the cause of the revolution. Revolutionary War. Key historical site to ---- ----. One of my direct descendants fought here, nice to see it so well preserved. Turning point in the American Revolution. Battle of Saratoga revolutionary war. The revolutionary battle that took place there. The battle became the turning point of the revolutionary war. Significant Revolutionary War Battlefield.  The American win at Saratoga stopped the British Southward advance and helped convince France to join the fight. Turning point in American Revolution. To preserve a historical battlefield for now and the future. Many men (and women) came together to overcome the British Army and won-dispute being a new Army. Helps me learn about the founding of my country. One of the most significant events in American history occurred here, enabling all other events that followed in U.S. history. The impact the Battle of Saratoga had on the Revolution, changing the tide of war to favor the Americans. It was the turning point of the American Revolution. The battles of Saratoga were key events/victories that contributed to our independence from England. Major turning point in the American Rev from a military perspective. Instrumental, pivotal event in American Revolution. It reminds/teaches generations and future generations of the struggles our early Americans endured in their ---- of a better country. Turning point of the revolutionary war. The turning point of the American Revolution. Turning point of the American Revolution. Saratoga Battlefield was a turning point of the American Revolution.  It is a place where the Americans defeated the British which led to France and Spain siding with America. Battle of Saratoga and the turning point of Revolutionary War. Turning point of the revolution. Turning point of our Rev. War/most important historic park in the USA.  Keep it going-improve outside displays. Helped to explaining how the war was fought. The Battle of Saratoga is known as the turning point of the Revolution-VERY significant!  Plus 5 seats ---- and one ---- 61-70. The revolutionary war is important for all to know about.  This is a great way to learn about it. I'm from the West, this park helped me to understand what our forefathers did to establish this country.  Thanks."
222,Black Canyon of the Gunnison NP,BLCA,"The view. Preserve for future generations. Not sure!  Pretty though. The view, sightseeing, the sound of nature. The beauty and preserving this for generations to see. The geological formations.  The river as it formed the canyon and is being used to provide life-giving fresh water to its community.  Nature in its boundless glory. Beautiful view. The preservation of an impressive canyon for future generations. That it stays untouched. The sharp vertical Canyon sides and Canyon depth. Beautiful geological features. The geological history of the earth. Great place to see a mine, Grand Canyon.  It is a beautiful place and driving to the bottom was well worthwhile. The beauty. The beauty and geologic value. The night sky; the geology; the breath-taking beauty. Unparallel natural scenery of the Canyon. It is one of the most awesome natural wonders on earth! The canyon itself must be preserved for all to see. Geological and historic importance. One of the last discovered places in the U.S.; the appearance is striking vertical dark canyon. Open, wild, wilderness is important to set aside for future generations to experience.  We CHERISH OPEN SPACE. The beauty! Everyone needs to see this beauty.  Kids included. Canyon/unique geological features. Italian immigrants, Irish immigrants:  they rock.  Our country was made great by immigrants. Beautiful, unusual, interesting site.  Shows the variety of natural phenomena in the US. Water, recreation, beauty. It preserves the original pristine beauty of our country and provides an awe inspiring environment for spiritual reflection and physical activities. Recreational purpose for the nation and nature study. The fountain of the Canyon is amazing. Our Nation is full of beauty and educational opportunities. Unique and not found anywhere else. Views and agriculture.  Ranger Mike!!! History and settlement of Western Colorado and importance of Gunnison River. Wilderness preservation. Natural wonder. It is a unique geological feature. The phenomenon and view of the canyon. I did not find any. We didn't know there was a boat trip on the river selection of post cards worse than ---- for the magnitude of the parks beauty. It is a natural wonder and had a great story to tell.  This should be preserved for generations to come. Unique geographical and aesthetic featured-not found anywhere else. Unique geologic interest. It's history and geology. Natural treasure that needs to be preserved for enjoyment and beauty for ALL not developed for commercial purpose for those who can afford it. Preserve geological, biological, cultural heritage. The value of preserving the uniqueness. It is a beautiful drive, enjoyed going through the park. Part of Colorado history, railroad, water source, Ute Indians, geology of the canyon and surrounding lands, protecting wildlife and habitat. Started out as a canyon, now the dark sky is perhaps more important. The absolute glory of this beautiful creation!  It is so-so-so spectacular! It's significant because of the natural beauty and the geological story it tells. It is remarkable in its beauty. Unique geological formations.  The ""wonder"" of it. Very unusual unique and beautiful geological and geographic formations. How it was discussed and been maintained for all to enjoy. God's creation! Another grand value for my love of America. Share the beauty! Geologic wonder, fascinating history, Dark Sky. Incredible history.  Inaccessible beauty and wildlife. Very good video for price.  Nice park rangers. A wonderful reminder that we're just a small part of something much larger and greater! Only canyon of this kind. Beauty, education, preservation. Cannot lose these magnificent features.  This is what most people are missing in their lives. Are you kidding?  This is a little Grand Canyon! Discovery of land and history of formation of each. It's great to have another national park in Colorado to preserve.  It's an amazing place for future generations. Size, beauty, uniqueness. IT is geologically unique. I liked its trails and rocks. That we are here only briefly and that the earth is very old. It allows people from all over to enjoy our local wildlife and views. Absolutely! Canyon! Experiencing the beauty of our country. A major canyon. Grandeur undisturbed by man. It's a unique environment, different from all the mountains surrounding it. Beautiful water and Block Rock and Canyon. Only place like this on the planet! Protecting the canyon from development so that all can see the majesty of nature. The park is beautiful and diverse in flora. Views. To preserve the canyon and it's unique formation of minerals and crystals. Public access to a pristine, wild nature area for all generations now and in the future. Beautiful scenery, geology. Beautiful! Canyons. 0 Very important!  I value national and state park systems/services tremendously and support funding. A unique, beautiful, mystifying landscape with much geologic history-should be preserved."
223,Virgin Islands NP,VIIS,"Caribbean environment and culture with great land and water facilities.  Good place to relax and enjoy the warm weather in winter for reasonable cost. This Park contains the most beautiful beaches which represent our beautify country. Some of the best beaches in the world that the USA should be proud to have. Preserved wildlife and plant life of a U.S. Caribbean Island, and coral reefs.  A treasure! To protect the reefs and the natural history of the Caribbean. This Park has historic significance and great natural beauty.  It is wonderful that these things are protected and so available to the average citizen.  We LOVE it here. It shows the importance of the Caribbean eco system including reefs, fish, mountains and illustrates the brutality of slavery. The commitment to dedications the amount of land as part of the National Park and keeping it undeveloped. Incredible-nothing like it. 0 Fees. Saving a natural wonder. It preserves the natural and historic story of this area and allows many to enjoy it's beauty. Preservation of unique land seascape. Preserve the beauty of the seashore. To preserve the history and awareness of sugar cane production during that era.  It was a tough way of life. If it wasn't protected, man will wreck it. Part of national park system.  Really nice to have. Triangle trade-understanding. Coral reefs and preserving wild life. It's cultural and natural resources.  Keep them protected!  Loving to death. Island tropical environment with rocks, coral, fishes, plantation ruins. Natural beauty, preservation-education for youth. Historical ----. The shoreline. Preserve the land and water. Love the water. Preserve for future generations the history ecology of the area. The beauty, temperature, striving to keep the history of the Island. Keeping land and historic buildings in preservation is always of national significance-the stone work is incredible. Protection natural environment.  Education of Visitors. To preserve the natural beauty of the Island. It is important to set aside land for the future. 1)  Preserving unique natural habitat. Historical evolution of government and economy. It is a premier Caribbean Monument for the U.S. and provides a rich history of our imperial roots in the West. Recreation. This is a very special place full of history that you can see on the trails.  Also what an amazing, simple place full of nature. Very important. To protect and preserve our Seas and Island natural resources.  Educate visitors on our history.  Provide recreation that does no damage. 0 Former plantation life and subjugation of slaves. Portion of an entire history. Historical perspective/trade/agriculture/economic/diversity of flora. Cinnamon Bay Campground is a poor example of how a Park should be run.  Horrible Staff. Very big diversity of our Park System. Preservation and  history. Preserving nature and helping the public to engage and enjoy nature and the beautiful scenery and area. Love the history and preservation of places to visit. It's the only National Park that educates on the history of the Caribbean. Beauty, ecology, staving off rampant commercial development. Preserving the natural beauty of our country is very important. So we can enjoy the beautiful natural surroundings. Absolutely crucial to keep this Park for public option in Caribbean.  This is our third time.  We are considering cottages, but they look a bit run down. I enjoyed the preservation of wildlife including the coral Reef. Untouched. It is 2/3rd's of St. John and because of the Park and Beaches it remains beautiful. Offering Americans an opportunity to stay in the Islands at a reasonable rate. Preservation of the natural beauty.  Please maintain public enjoyment of the beauty for all. Having been to many National Parks across America I find each preserved a unique part of our natural heritage.  We lead the world by example in protecting these ----. Best place to be to preserve our beauty. The beauty of the land, people and water! History, nature, marine life. Preservation of natural resources so we many enjoy them. National Park are a great way to preserve our environment. Giving every one an opportunity to enjoy such beautiful beaches and tropics. Beauty. Incredibly important. Great history. Without the Park, St. John would look like St. Thomas. Preservation of sea shore, fauna and nature.  Need more recycling. Culture of history. For people from all around the world to enjoy. Maintaining history of Island life. Help ---- staff - ---- ----. History of inhabitants and how they lived. So more people can enjoy the beauty in our world.  And to learn about what is here. An appreciation of natural beauty and experiencing it is an ESSENTIAL human leisure activity.  Such areas must be available. Extremely important to preserve and protect marine habitat, beaches and forests for future generations. It protects the beautiful Coral Reef. Preservation of resources. It is a national treasure!  Thank you for protecting this environment. Life balance, relaxation, appreciation, learning. Preserving beauty and ecology of Island. PROTECTION!  Enjoyment, appreciation of a resource that would otherwise be turned into condos. Beautiful, historical. Conserving culture. Cultural, biology, beauty, a place to leave, rest and restore! Historical-Landmark. Preservation of history, culture. Preservation of nature resources and history. Preservation.  Natural beauty. That it is forever available and undeveloped. To learn more about the area and nature. To preserve the Island protect it and educate people about it. Tremendous historical value. Unlike any thing else that N.P.S. has. A beautiful spot to be preserved for our learning about the natural world and history of the Island's people. Historical preservation of the Caribbean connection to the Americans. It represents one of the most beautiful, protected parks in America, love it! U.S. great place.  Preservation of great asset. Beautiful typical island worth preserving. To teach people ---- of the island. ---- of a true tropical island and coral reef system. Wonderful educational and recreational experiences. Conservation. Awareness of coral reef protection. Preservation of this magnificent island. Beautiful recreation culture opportunity. It is a national treasure for sure. Coral. It is helping to preserve the island of St. John. The start of colonization of the Americans. St. John is a valuable asset to the people of USA.  I hope it will continue to provide an opportunity to see the island as more than at tourist stop! Coral reef is ----, very sad.  Beach is very nice. History! ----. Maintaining access to this gorgeous place.  A heavenly piece of paradise. It's beauty and unique nature. Beautiful site preserved for all to experience. Provide an opportunity to experience an island and marine environment. Unique in USA, being the only island park in Caribbean, sea level to mountaintop. We need to preserve there natural environments. Yes, very good, excellent trails and beaches. Wildlife and beauty. To enjoy its beauty without development. It's tropical, recreation. So different from all of our other National Parks-a beautiful tropical paradise!! The setting aside of beautiful country which eliminates over development. It is a wonderful preservation of colonial ----. 0 This is as ----, unique because of location-the beautiful Caribbean!  Just wonderful. It is very important to preserve the beautiful beaches and reefs.  Also the history of the island is significant. History and nature. Culture, natural resources. Maintenance of ----, natural areas for research and recreation-all in a tropical climate. Very important. Important historical lessons. Very high.  The Caribbean influenced the south ---- for 400 years. Being able to see a window into the past and appreciate what life was like. It's beautiful, peaceful. Rich in history, natural preservation. Ruins. To ----.  Materialism ---- kept well-perhaps there would be more fish ----. USA-beautiful, spacious skies. A wonderful outdoor opportunity with good history. Natural beauty. Enjoy time with my lady. Nature preservation including fish and reefs. Critically important. Preservation of natural resources and accessibility. Natural resource, available to all. This park is a credit to the Virgin Islands and is absolutely gorgeous. Preserve the nature. Fragile coral environments unlike any other park. 0 Preservation of natural beaches. A great place for all to enjoy. Must have. It is a unique eco system which should be protected. A treasure. Huge, preserving the island from excessive construction/destruction. Preservation of nature and coral reef site. Unparalleled natural beauty and significant cultural history. Paradise for those in need! Everything is amazing! People at campground (campers) are totally dependent on taxis. Natural resource preservation. Example of U.S.! global involvement service of the history of 5 ----. Preservation. The cultural and natural history of St. Johns was amazing to learn about. Tropical Island preserved and historical value. Undeveloped and natural landscape that is beautiful.  This park is a great place to relax. Unspoiled access to natural beaches and water/---- Awesome VI NP. We have visited several National Parks. Preservation of the natural beauty of our land/nation. Cinnamon Bay ----, concession not maintaining. Important in World Wars. The park preserves/saves the island from gross development-enables visitors to experience unspoiled Caribbean Island. Nature at it's best-perfect! Natural resources-coral reef, mountains, trails, swimming. No opinion."
224,Keweenaw National Historical Park,KEWE,"The development of a copper industry that supported the world, as well as new mining technology. Immigrant and Copper Mining History of the Keweenaw Peninsula. To maintain and reinforce history of area which is so unique. Showed copper production until 1945 and how the people lived and worked. To inform and help persons to remember the importance of Copper Mining done here and its influence on the Country. It demonstrates the lives and labors of Copper Miners when Copper was very important to this area and the Nation. The significance is in the history of the area.  How the area was settled, the commercial development, and how it has changed. Our tour guide (can't recall her name) was excellent and willingly answered all questions. It relates the copper mining history to the economic development of the US and it's decline as bigger deposits were found out West. Rich history of mining in the upper peninsula of Michigan. The visitors center is, by far, one of the best consumer-engagement and activations I have ever visited. Absolutely amazing! Important ---- and immigrant communities, 1800's. Adds to understanding of race of immigrants, religion and ---- in the life of community, provides great example of fine old architecture. Giving history of Calumet and copper mining. Explains how mining was used in the industrial age and how it impacted all the nation. Explains immigration and where people came from. Historical, beauty, recreational. Preserving the mining history of the Keweenaw. Economy, industry, DIVERSITY. Unique part of the history. It shows copper mines in the ----. Copper mines in the keweenaw. Shows me history of copper mining in the nation. Awareness of mining history. Learning about the past. Great place!! Knowledge of copper mining and area. History of the copper mine industry! Regional history. To preserve our history. Demonstrates the history of mining to the Keweenaw and the nation, at one point a contributor to the Union in the Civil War. History of Mining (Copper). History of Copper and way of life. Major historic significance, tells the story of why all these different cultures and nationalities are here and stayed. The immigration. Lots of history preserved for future generations. Very important part of our history. Great place to learn about the mining history-super park volunteers. Better understanding on local history. Very good history of the area, very interesting. This park does an excellent job of portraying life during the ""copper rush"".  It is wonderful to see all of the preservation efforts.  Very educational. History, Heritage, Culture. History. Upper Peninsula mining history and development and subsequent ----. It demonstrates the industrial early origins of our country and this area. Presenting clear concise and interesting about how this region information/influenced America. History of mining to the Keweenaw Peninsula and the nation.  Especially copper mining. Helps teach the value of copper mining in our nation's history. History of mining industry and culture of the Keweenaw Peninsula. Keeping the history of copper mining alive. To preserve history and keep green space available for everyone in years to come. Provides people the culture and knowledge of the region.  Very important.  Also, very educational for the young. History. Wonderful history story of the people and area. Huge point of immigration and assimilation, beautiful landscape. My ancestors immigrated to the UP from Ireland and Sweden during the 1800s.  Ranger Holmstrom helped me search information on my great-grandparents. Important to retain this history. It provides historical context to the industrial remains in the ----.  It educates about the rise of labor unions in industry. History of copper mining and the courageous folks that lived and worked in the area. History of the mining industry/community is important in understanding the growth of the upper Midwest in this country. Understanding the copper history of our nation and the people that lived in this area.  Very interesting!  Great help from volunteer museums. Excellent historical exhibit about the World's largest Copper Mine (----) at that time. Copper industry. Camping town, making history, 1900's architecture. To help visitors understand the importance of the Keewanaw and Copper Mining to the Nation and Region. So history doesn't get forgotten. Early copper mining. Mining industry, beauty and economics of Great Lakes. We learned a lot about a part of our countries history that we knew nothing about.  We are from Connecticut and this was first visit to MI. It is a snap shot of time in our history.  Will recommend the park to others.  Fascinating. History of area, cultural and industrial areas of buildings and their preservation. Shows what copper mining was like and how it affected the surrounding area-for better and worse. Labor history. Preserve history. History of mining industry, immigrants and the slow decline of the town and the resurgence of visitors. The great staff. A very important resource for learning about immigrants to this country and how resourceful the local people were. It explains and preserves the history and culture of the copper mining community and industry. It gives outsiders and members of the community alike a cultural identification of this community.  The buildings are beautiful and should be preserved. Mining town, industrial age. Very important. History of the region. The history. Cultural and historical relevance. A national treasure. A good tribute to the ---- and woman who moved here, worked and did here. Business history, union history, diversification of worker heritages. ""To enjoy-and teach"". This/these parks are something we all should have a chance to enjoy and the park ---- are so good at teaching us how to enjoy this beauty, but also how to RESPECT and VALUE what we have! History of copper area. Yes! Great important to our history. Very significant-interesting history and settling of many immigrants. Enjoyed. Impressive! History of Copper Mining Industry is significant, and as well as beautiful natural settings. The history of the Peninsula that brought civilization and established wealth in the harsh weather of the UP. It captures an important stage in national history. Extremely important.  These buildings and history are very unique and it would be sad to lose any more. History, culture, many peoples who have lived and worked in area. Keep it on the map, so much history.  Husband is from here. History of Calumet. Learn about area attraction including Coper. History. The rich history of the UP. Very well done, informative but not of national significance-very much of state and regional importance-created due Washington park. Preservation of historic building. To preserve and honor the miners and their families in their hard work and sacrifice. The story it tells of laborers who worked under incredibly difficult conditions, but accomplished monumental things. Historical connection to national industrial development. Preserving our culture and heritage. Wonderful information about local geology and history resources. The history and architecture. It was very significant. Preserving an important industrial site and attendant culture. The geological history of the region. Thank you for ""saving"" this town/area. Multi-cultural, history of immigrants who wanted to make America their home and WORK HARD to do so, not take welfare. Natural resource (copper) booming economy.  Unions destroyed it.  Ingenuity helped save Calumet. Mining communities in the early 20th century. There is a lot of history here in the U.P. History of people and the era that affected a future people. It has the most extensive native copper deposits in the world.  The mining story with it's distinctive ethnic groups are important in our heritage. The community built to sustain its members in providing copper to the world."
225,Fort Donelson NB,FODO,"The start of the ---- of ---- ----. Grant's first battle. Civil war/US history. Thank you!  The historical significance is so important to our next generation. Historical importance of Civil War period and the development of officer who would play great importance in the country after the war! This park is significance because it commemorates the key battle in the turning point in the Civil War.  Without this win, the Union could not have continued their move south. The battle in this town is something people need to learn about.  The significance of the rivers. Part of USA and CSA history. It chronicles our Civil War history and eradication of the shame of the U.S. slavery. Our civil war should continue to be taught to younger generations, as part of the growing process of our nation.  The ---- of our history is not known by younger people. Very educational. All of our nation's history is VERY important-and that definitely includes this park.  If we lose our parks like this, then portions of our history does also.  Glad for the park! The beginning of the end for the South. Turning point in Civil War opening the rivers for Union troops, supplies movement. Significant Union victory that (1) vaulted Grant to national prominence; and (2) opened the South for invasion. Part of our history, preserve it for all generations to see. Early Union victory. 1. Great historical significance in civil war.  2. Sample of vast hardwood forest in this area. The history-the War between the States, our Eagles, our Park Rangers-especially Doug Richardson. I enjoy visiting Civil War battlefields and this has to be one of my favorites. To show/explain the civil war and what it changed in our country to our kids. Teaching my children the history of our nation. Gen. Grant gained recognition in national press after opening access to the South via the rivers; the beginning of the end of the Civil War. Civil War history and cemetery for visitors and relatives, descendents.  Safe place for visitors and locals. U.S. Grant's step onto a bigger stage; early battle in Civil War Western Theater. Great part of our history. Preserve history of civil war. Key civil war location. Keep history alive to remember lessons learn. Tells a good story. Holds onto civil war. A central part of the Civil War. History for all ages."
226,Ninety Six NHS,NISI,"Loved the history of this park. This site has much importance to the balance of power in the ---- war, as such this site needs to be saved.  The Star Fort adds to the uniqueness of this site. This area played a significant role in our Country's history.  Loved actually seeing the Park's sites and Fort! Telling the story of Greene's campaign in SC in 1781. It is a marker for us to remember the struggle for independence. Historical and cultural. It is a part of history that helped shape America. Star Fort was built/used during the Revolutionary War.  The local community, Ninety six, is named after this site's location. Key site of a major battle in rev. war. American Independence. Southern campaign of American Revolution. The importance of the fort in the Revolutionary ---. The start fort Earth work as they only remaining such fort fiction. The only dirt start fort from the time and the tunnels. It clearly demonstrates what a battle was like in the Revolutionary War. American Revolution took place here!  I am a proud DAR! Strategies of winning S.C. back for patriots in revolution. Revolutionary War. Remembering our history.  Much was sacrificed. What freedom cost. Site of historical fight. 1st battle in south. Extremely significant. History of a battle during Revolutionary War. Preserves the fact that the revolution was not universally accepted among Americans. The first island war of the revolution and a important part of our nation's heritage. Very well done documentary of Revolutionary War battle. Very important for showing the Civil War aspect of the ---- and hardships on both sides. Battle in America Revolution. History, appreciation of freedom, teaching future generations. I enjoyed learning about Andrew Pickens fighting for both sides.  Also about ----. Same preservation significance as the rest to our fine military parks. Very much needed. Native American trading. It has ---- ----. 1st south battle of revolutionary war. Explaining the importance. The first battle of the revolutionary in the South was fought here with the first casualty. The site of a historic colonial town and battlefield of the American revolution. Taking part in the American Revolution. It teaches about a little known, but important ---- in the American Revolution the movie was great! One of the first Revolutionary War battles in South Carolina. Revolutionary War battles. Teaching history of our independence to our young folk in an interesting way. Very, loved the history. Fantastic tool to teach about the revolutionary war. Significant local and state history. To make people aware of what our freedom cost. It is not free. Very important, the first and last battles of the American Revolution fought here. It explained how and why the revolutionary war extended into the south and a considerable distance inland from the coast. I went to CowPens, Kings mountain and I learned about ---- from my map-it was a great find! I am working on my passport! Showed the vision of the militant leaders-""Star"" Fort.  Also final land battle in the South. The living history even was good, but the Star Fort (Mounds) was excellent.  Previous military tactics-very important. In my opinion, the National significance of this Park is that Ninety-Six was one of the most important Battlegrounds of the American Revolution. Key site in revolutionary war. Critical Rev. War battle and the preservation after 200+ years is amazing.  The information markers along the path were very helpful and provided very detailed information. Major Rev. War battle on a major trade route, very well depicted. Revolutionary war is valuable part of U.S. history. History of the US and significance on the birth of our country. Revolutionary war battle. To provide detailed, educational information about a relevant battle in Revolutionary War. Had no idea the Revolutionary War history of the area.  Very much enjoyed learning about Ninety-Six Cowpens and King's Mountain."
227,Boston African American NHS,BOAF,"The history of Beacon Hill's free black community is integral to understanding US history. Black history, slavery of abolition education in Boston. Very significant, such an integral part of our history! Center piece of the abolitionist movement. A much deeper dive into social and political issues, loved it. To show how beach communities formed in Boston. Great tour and very informative. I was in Boston, took 2 tours-Black History with Ryan?  The ranger talks and sights were excellent, informative, fun and funny at times. Extremely valuable and so beneficial to telling the story of African-American history.  Can't wait for the grand opening in D.C. Sept. 24th. Milestone in the U.S. history, still not well known. I'm not American, but I learned a lot about national history, which is the real pillar today's USA is build on. Tremendous historic significance and provide inspiration for future social change. The inspirational talk of Ranger Dona Smith taught me more about the Black American heritage trail; an exploration on the subject of equality. Awareness. Very significant. 0 The stories, struggles, and complexities of people/views/changes in the African American community in Boston. Historical significance. Black Heritage trail. The value of educating around freed black communities in this era is immeasurable. This is of significant national importance.  This tour shines a light on the untold African American impact on the ongoing fight for Civil Rights. Very informative-Amelia was very knowledgeable. Not sure. Understanding the role of slavery and African Americans and the impact on US history. Birth place of abolition. Preserving historic sites and educating people on the great contribution ---- the black community in Boston. To give people the history of what black people went through and did for the nation. African American history. This is a crucial element all too often overlooked in American history. Building understanding of the African American historical ---- Keeping alive the idea that freedom cannot exist without equal rights for EVERYONE. That quality is one of the key issues in this country and especially the debate about equality of Afro-Americans isn't over yet. ---- To show      the second Boston Revolution abortionism. Many great black leaders were active in this area, responsible for advances in abolitionist movement, black education, integration.  Most is there are not well known and should not be forgotten. ---- Cradle of equality. Deeply significant as a repository of the history of the African-American Community and American history in general. Fight for racial equality, ending slavery. It gives a whole History of the city of Boston, not just one side. Open nature and space and history available to all. Yes.  Very interesting to learn about African American history in Boston, Massachusetts and USA. History! For the educational and history especially for the blacks. American significance. African American history. Important history that isn't taught much. A very valuable significant part of US history. Boston is very important to our nations history.  You have done a wonderful job of preserving it! History of Black Americans, abolitionist movement, underground railroad, civil war, revolutionary was-all really interesting. Frederick Douglas museum. Learning of African American history. Brings to light a part of history that is often neglected. Freedom trail tour was informative, captivating and a celebration of Boston's persistence to abolish slavery. Freedom. History of abolition movement. Keeping African Americans informed! Hearing about our history and challenges. The national significance is civil rights and the journey of our country to get to where it is now. It tells the true history of African-Americans in the U.S.. Ending slavery. That it's the first African-American meeting house in the heart of Boston, which influenced other communities to follow suit. It informs people of the black revolution, starting as a slave and becoming a citizen. The history of African-Americans in terms of slavery and abolitionist. Significant to vital African-American history and abolitionist history. I think this park is a very important observance of a very important part of our history, and it makes me proud to be a Massachusetts native. Excellent African-American history in Boston. Important aspects of American history that are often overlooked, particularly the history of slavery and black communities. Black heritage brought to life. Many first in the country with regard to equality, black education, abolition and more. This is where the nation's abolitionist, desgregationalist, and suffragist movements began.  It is imperative future generations see this. The foundation of this nation.  This is as important as the other well known monuments.  Irreplaceable. Interesting and accurate history.  Nice storytelling which interested the kids. I had no idea of the contributions of Boston in terms of the civil rights/African-American history. Important info about the Black history of Boston and the country. Historic. Showing the struggle and triumph of blacks in our country.  Especially considering the current climate, this is critical! Preserving the history of African Americans in Boston and New England, very important. The ranger was very informative however the African American Heritage Trail should be as accessible as the Freedom Trail as it's just as important. Without a doubt this has been one of the most interesting experience I have had in YEARS.  The significance of the ---- and ---- ---- ---- can't be over ---- nor can it ---- on this ----. It was crucial in getting equality for all minorities because the African American achievements for fights still going on ----. Preserving history of civil rights and teaching others the effects of social change. Important location in African American history. First civil rights monument. Americans need to know how African Americans helped to build this great country. It brings people and history together and facilitator a social exchange of knowledge and a healthy environment. Birth place of ---- slavery, ---- for blocks. Important repository of American history. Extremely significant. To preserve nature and history for future generations. Provide important insight into early civil rights activities, pre civil war. Huge significance-fascinating tour related to black history in Boston, and it's role in addressing inequities. Foundation of the 1960s Civil Rights movement. Understanding the connection and parallels between the deep divisions of the past and those of today."
228,Springfield Armory NHS,SPAR,"The historical scat of our country's independence and strength. The Amoy was operated by the Federal Government for many decades.  It was fascinating to learn about how the process of gun manufacturing changed over time and learn about early use of machines. Never realized we had a National Armory set up for the making and improving of guns. Treasure the historical significance and strategical located ---- ---- ---- in the US. Part of our history! As a former U.S. Army infantry office, there is not a more significant site covering design and manufacture of small arms.  Definitely responsible for winning Wars. Extremely significant.  Our independence and self-reliance on others and ability to generate ---- was critical to our perseverance. Historical value. This armory has been nationally important since the time of G. Washington.  It needs more publicity! Historical development and presentation of America's arms and military use is defending and building the nation. Historic. It's really important because it shows a ---- of the culture of the culture of the Nation. Made guns and industry through Civil War to WWII.  Huge impact on U.S. history. National security by designing and equipping forces with small arms. Important/critical to teaching our history to children and immigrants. Established inter changeable parts and move towards assembly line/mass production but maintained craftsmanship. First armory. Site on one of two U.S. armories since 1790s-open to 1962.  Led with quality control and innovation. Produced the arms that secured our freedom from oppression. Great history lesson on Springfield arms. An important collection and testimony to our national heritage. The Springfield Armory made weapons for the defense of the country.  The history and technical innovation is exceptional. Development of the American way of manufacturing. Shays Rebellion and the history of the Spring Armory. It's awesome that they're divided to keep this place going so many can appreciate it! Excellent-thank you. History. Seasonal rangers and other staff were very helpful, enthusiastic and professional. High significance. Historical and 2nd amendment. American history of wartime weaponry. This park is significant to the history of Springfield and the USA as a record of service, industry, and technology. Very important, only known to military history buffs. History. Awesome NHS about the weapons made here! Great information on history of guns. Valuable history.  Excellent exhibits. Evolution of the gun and rifle. Awesome history of the weapons made and the industry. Historical-military. The Armory produced quality arms for our service people which helped to save lives. The history of our right to bear arms and the making of the weapons should always be remembered. To preserve our military history. Citizens to see historical artifacts, machines, displays, videos, etc..  We need to preserve our history in museums. Industry, defense, history. History of important weapons used by our military. Exactly because of its significance! History of arms and arms manufacturing as related to the USA. History of our great military. Major point for American manufacturing and weapon development in America. Supplying guns to soldiers of many wars. The history that is well preserved now and for future generations. This park captures history vital to our nation's development as an independent power, able to produce its own firepower.  More specifically, my fourth great-grandfather was superintendent Lt. Col. Roswell Lee.  This trip was a lifetime highlight for me and my family.  We are extremely grateful. Very important. Very informative and historical significance. Weaponry is a large component of our history and one that has allowed us to maintain our freedom. What an incredible history of equipping our soldiers for service. Main supplier of Northern states during wartime, supplying dependable weaponry to military. History of our national armory. History. The rich history this park represents and the role this facility played in our nation's history. History. The hometown of M1 rifle. The first national armory, amazing amount of artifacts. For armory. It's historical significance is obvious.  It's meaning for our nation's struggle to freedom is still important. Weaponry and its creation and usage have formed society today.  Very interesting and informative place. Records history of manufacturing in the context of war. We liked the history of the guns. The armory was central in providing U.S. with good rifles.  It also created amazing weapons and gave work to highly skilled workers. The history of the founding of a way to protect the rights and liberties of a nation. Shows armory history. Huge. Old Guns. My Mother worked at the Armory in 1943-44.  The value of this place to America's survival is un-estimable! The manufacturing aspect of arms supply gives a very detailed account of past wars. Development of military weapons, manufacturing invention. Learn about our Country's weapons and arms. One hundred seventy years of contributing to defense of the U.S.. History, national armory. History of weapons and how it evolved and helped to protect our country. Until visiting I was not aware of the Armory or its services to our country.  I am sorry gun distribution to our armed services was privatized. Contribution to national defense thru research and production of rifles for our military. Historical. This park is a big part of United States history.  I hope it will be around for year to come. History. American history and manufacturing. The ingenuity of our earlier generation's war on full display and the weapons that they produced helped our nation triumph. Its history was a cornerstone to the protection of our land. How our country produced firearms from the Revolutionary War until its closing in 1968.  Fascinating history! ----. History of the ---- ---- ----.  It was a great learning experience. Tells the history of rifle manufacturing. Very nice museum visited on 7/9/16 nice program for welcome back ---- workers. Means to defend USA in wars.  Documents, explains, and demonstrates methods developed and used to develop critical tools to defend the USA. History of weaponry, technological advance, development of local area. History of war time firearm production. Yes.  Springfield Armory could have some weapons of today's wars. Great learning experience for history of USA. It was the place where America's weapons were greated for over a century. Everything was better than we imagined!  All of the displays were great! To show the use and manufacture of military guns. Establishing by 1st President as a means to produce fire arms in defense of our new nation was in ---- until govt. privatized fun development. To offer visitors an historical perspective of arms during the centuries. Our nations 1st Armory of weapons made for George Washington's Army and defense.  Longfellow's beautiful poem about the ---- of ----, Civil War. In addition to its critical role in the Revolutionary War, Civil War, and two World Wars, the armory preserves a story of American manufacturing ingenuity, from water power to AW. A source of information for our nation's development of arms production from it's humble beginnings an Industrial Revolution shows American ingenuity and a mighty nation.  Very proud to learn about. To those who made the tool of war in order to protect and fight. Springfield Armory has played an important role in several significant wars. Significant in U.S. military history. The armory was instrumental in the development and refinement of mass production. Historical significance-vital! History of our city and where my grand mother worked. Played huge role in manufacturing arms for our military/soldiers to defend our country. Very historical the arms that defended our country were manufactured there. Excellent fire arms exhibit on the evolution of firearms used in our nation's wars.  Also showed the changing technology of firearms manufacturing. Extremely significant based on the history of the use of fire arms in the establishment of our country's freedom. It was the primary arms manufacturing plant of our country. The development of small areas that were used to preserve our freedom and country especially interesting and significant was John Garand and his M1 rifle-awesome-thank you John. This armory played an important part in our local and national history.  The nation benefited by the crafts people of this area. One of the two armories that won the Civil War. Excellent overview of firearms in our history. Demonstrates our ---- and skills. Springfield ---- designed and supplied America's military army for numerous wars and one a century. Historical. Yes."
229,Roger Williams NMem,ROWI,"It's extremely important that all US residents be permitted freedom of religion. Preserving the right to religious freedom. Celebrates the creator of RI. Recognizes the founder of RI who was a true advocate of religious freedom. Roger Williams-Rhode Island-freedom of religion and speech. The cradle of religious freedom represented. The history. Founder of RI!!  Huge. Roger Williams' belief in religious liberty. Establishing a place with religious freedom and tolerance (that we need more of in this day and age). Honors Roger Williams who inspired religious freedom to be fundamental part of U.S. Religious freedom. Commemorates Roger Williams and separation of church and state. It is focused on freedom of religion and equality of all citizens which our country is founded on. Very important. It was central to the founding principles of the U.S. One of the first place of separation of church and state. Freedom and religion in America. History of religious freedom, and founding of state of Rhode Island. Very significant-it explains the foundation by which our constitution was created. Williams was pivotal in establishing the idea of ---- church and state and all are created by God, even Native Americans. Absolutely. Emphasizes the historical importance of religious freedom. Honors Roger Williams and first modern government begun separate from religion. Haven't used the park sorry! Representative of Roger Williams planned community and ideals. Religious freedom. Introduction of religious freedom in US. Beginning of religious tolerance. Freedom of religion, ---- History of freedom or religion and tolerance. History of Roger Williams efforts to separate Church and State for freedom of religion. The endurance of religious freedom as on American institution began with ---- in providence. Freedom of ----. The religious and tolerant qualities of the thinking of Roger Williams. In general, we don't know much about him or his thinking so this is a great plan. Religious freedom. Williams contribution to freedom of religion 100 years before constitution was drafted. It details the story of the founder of one of our original colonies.  That is a tremendous significance. Focused on freedom of religion and establishment of the local community.  Very important. Learning about Roger Williams and providence. Birthplace of religious freedom. Religious freedom-especially significant for religious minorities. Info about colonist who was forward thinking and inclusive. Extremely significant.  The beginning of religious freedoms. Great video and welcome center. It is a great learning opportunity. There is history rooted here.  Freedom of religion founded here. Roger William and church and state. Religious freedom loved it and thank you Roger Williams."
230,Ozark NSR,OZAR,"Historic. Preserve some of the beauty of God's handiwork for people to enjoy and hopefully thank Him for. To preserve and protect the river system and allow visitors to enjoy nature. The Spring-largest in the area. Protecting the caves and springs. Preservation of natural beauty for citizens of all age to enjoy. For thirty-six years my parents, ourselves, our kids and grand kids have learned about nature, enjoyed canoeing, respecting and learning and valuing seeing animals-fish and passing that love of connecting with the beauty of this region from each generation.  Value the opportunity to bring family together. The natural spring is beautiful.  The exhibits were educational-really showed the history of southern Missouri. Natural beauty. Getting people the opportunity to enjoy nature with their families and friends. Preserving the wildlife ---- so other generations can enjoy. Heritage. Fantastic river. A national scenic river!  Preserve it! Ancestors traveled ----, ---- this land, they ---- and clear ----.  Also, ----. This park represents the cave systems and water ways important in ----. Water way, springs ----. Preserve Ozark ecosystem and ----. Yes it is significant to our nation!  Our group enjoyed really getting close to nature and learning from the staff. Indians use of the waterways. Scenic riverways/springs. It is important to preserve the spectacular Ozark NSR for future generations to enjoy. Preserving history and natures beauty. Enjoying the outdoor waterways and springs. A part of the history of our country preserved. Conserving nature and eco systems for our future generations. It shows how people in our history lived. We love this place, we keep coming back. River ways, mountains (history, beauty, recreation) preserved and protect this area please. It's good to preserve history. Natural waterways. The spring and mill. The beautiful spring. The natural springs. Representative of the Ozarks ---- The spring is beautiful and floating is awesome on the Current River. The spring and natural river. Natural river and natural spring. The river and natural spring. To visit and use one of our nation's most beautiful waterway, current river.  The woods and hills were beautiful also! Beauty of nature and clean rivers, springs and waterfalls.  The state park due to open in a few weeks with lodge-Echo. It's a ---- ---- ---- ----. The most beautiful and representative park in the Missouri/Arkansas area. River. Nature preservation. Enjoy the rangers and their service. Rivers and springs. Nature, ---- ----. Local attraction. Mostly undeveloped and pristine in nature. A beautiful and scenic location to teach people the value of Karst ----. The opportunity for everybody to explore, visit and enjoy all that nature has to offer. Preserving history. A place of great beauty especially the river and hills it goes through here in Missouri. The heritage of pioneering as well as Native cultures. Unique river and surrounding geology as well as cultural history. Big Spring, Current River, wildlife:  need protected-the park does that and allows enjoyment. Springs and rivers. Rivers. Water! Largest spring in Missouri.  Preservation of early settlement. The beautiful spring? I brought a group of Jr highers.  They learned some ---- history.  Also, the nature conservation efforts are very important. Interesting to see the springs that form current river."
231,Mount Rainier NP,MORA,"Glaciers.  This park rates as one of my top picks.  I've visited twenty national parks so far. One of most distinguishing features of WA, should be accessible to public, encourage. The volcano-it's status (active) the ecosystem supporting it, diversity of wild life, this is definitely a multi cultural park very diverse ---- on the trails and camping. Scenic beauty, geologic understanding, historic values. To bring people together. Preserving old growth forest and keeping an area in a natural and undisturbed condition for generations to enjoy. John Muir had a vision.  If he and others had not foresight the rich Americans would be the only people enjoying beautiful places.  Thank you John and all public parks employees, all Americans should have access to our beauty! Preserved beauty, promotional peaceful recreation focused on conservation. There is only one Mt. Rainier, and it needs to be protected and preserved. The beauty of rainier is a treasure for the US and the world. Natural treasure, few remnant infact ecosystems great rec opportunities. Unique beauty. A place to escape the cities. Learning opportunities. Retain beautiful wilderness area for future generations. The overall natural beauty. I'm from the Midwest with mountains and never seen a glacier we need ---- use ----. It provides the average person the chance to interact with mostly unspoiled nature. Spectacular scenery, vistas, wildflowers, waterfalls, old growth trees! Beauty of the mountain and surrounding areas. This park's national significance as the preservation of unique geological and diverse environment of this active volcano for all to see and experience. To enjoy, preserve and truly appreciate. It is one of my favorites!  Very beautiful. Beautiful nature areas. Recreation.  Uniqueness.  Clean water resource.  Wildlife habitat (fish).  Cultural importance.  Preservation of land from development. HIGH, VERY HIGH. Beauty of Mt. Rainier, it's animals and plants. To learn about the State's history, culture and appreciate nature. Unique location. To appreciate nature/geology. A gem in the National Park System.  A variety of terrain and opportunities for outdoor learning and experiences. The beautiful scenery.  The protected Grove of the Patriarchs. Fabulous flora and fauna and incredible beauty and recreation. Keeping it clean. Ability to enjoy national beauty. It's a major landmark and its preservation shows that there are many who care here and serve to keep it great. Amazing views. Citizens paid/pay for it.  We recently learned steps are not supposed to be more than 9 inches. Huge wilderness area! Celebration of the most well known volcano in North America. High. Seeing what the planet has started as far as creation and nature and preserving what we have. Fantastic. It symbolizes Washington state. To be able to let people see the beauty of nature. Mt. Rainier is unique in its elevation, glaciers, habitat and natural wonder.  ---- park. Its unique beauty. It is a place to stay connected to nature and ourselves. Historical and geological value. Everyone has their own adventure and what they see.  The park is so awesome for that. One of the best! We need nature for our spiritual survival. Getting away from distractions to reflect. Preserving wildlife. Beauty. It allows people to connect with seeing mountain to forests while camping and hiking.  It helps them appreciate nature. Very important mountain, forest and meadows in terms of ecology. It's important to keep areas like this so everyone has access. Mt. Rainier and the preservation. The New H.M Jackon Visitor Center ""Big"" disappointment could not see upstairs elevator out of order and I have a walker! Too big to fit onto 3 lines of a form.  The mountain is a symbol of the rich natural resources/heritage nature of the US. It's an icon, a natural beauty that instills a sense of history and patriotism.  The park is well portrayed and connected to present. Showing/educating the balance of native vs elements.  Discovering the wonders of this awesome park. It is a national treasure due to it's beauty, old growth, forest, history, educational and recreational opportunities. It's a beautiful area with a wonderful natural landscape with a unique attribute-a volcano. I did not grasp or understand national significance-need to research.  It was not obvious to me at park. Indian heritage/nature and eco system/Mt. ---- and glacial impact/sensitivity and importance of plants. We do a lot of camping and hiking. To preserve the beauty and natural ecology of Mt. Ranier and teach people about it."
232,Fort Davis NHS,FODA,"To preserve the beauty of the land and bldgs. Important to remember what took place in this Nation. The impact and part it played in ""development"", expansion, and change of the history of the area. Reflects realistic picture of life beyond the borders of civilization.  Appreciation for contributions of Buffalo Soldiers. The heritage of early America. Important in Texas history.  Interesting info on Second Lt. Flipper and the Indian Wars and Buffalo Soldiers. Fort protected westward movements along E-W trail allowing movement to local settlement.  Importance of army in western settlement. Understanding military life, Buffalo Soldiers, Civil War and expansion of U.S. territory. Keep our history alive. Insight into our westward expansion and use of Buffalo Soldiers. The history. It is a peek into what this area was like at the time.  The Black history was very interesting. Very important to understand US and Texas history, relationship with Native Americans. Very interesting and significant to our nation and Texas Rangers are very knowledgeable, friendly and excited to ----. Since the Indian Wars, Ft. Davis is the best surviving example of a functioning military post. Learned that purpose was to protect settlers on the last west migration. Tells story of process of western expansion, challenges to that expansion and the role of African-American soldiers in that process. Tells the history of the struggle to settle Texas. Education. Buffalo soldiers and opening up the West to safe travel especially San Antonio to El Paso To preserve the physical/environmental elements of the park.  A historical foot print about the fort and the lives affected by it. Rarely is this story-Buffalo Soldiers told-but here-Bravo! The history of settling the western part of the country. History.  It shows how tough these soldiers and families were and all of the sacrifices that were made. Important history. Growth of the West.  Great visit. The lady at the buildings really authentic. Show case into our nation's history. Reflects a key moment and process in the settlement of the West.  Also role of African-American soldiers. Instrumental in the Nation's expansion into the West.  Also educates on living conditions in the late 1800's and early 1900's. The history of the beginning of our Nation.  Showing how life was on the Frontier and Forts. This park gives the history of the American West in a personal way.  It gives the average citizen insight into the lives of average citizens in the last 1800s.  We really enjoyed the park and the rangers. Great exhibition of military life on American frontier. History of the Buffalo Soldiers.  Learning about Lt. ---- about being the first African-American that graduated from West Point and his career in military and civilian life. Westward expansion, frontier life, buffalo soldiers. We visited 12 years ago and so much improvement have been made.  Loved the history of the fort. Very important part of U.S. history. To educate our generation about the history in placing Forts to assist in protecting travelers and freight going West. Safety and settlement of Frontier. To show Texas history.  There is more to Texas than the Alamo and Six Flags! The buffalo soldiers and early fort like on the frontier. A major part of westward expansion in America.  The El Paso San Antonio road. A wonderful look into our heritage. Preserving a historic fort for future generations.  Buffalo Soldiers' history. Fine example of early frontier fort. To educate people about the history of Fort Davis. Early Texas history. It's a great depiction of how we settled the West. Learning about the western frontier as protected by the Buffalo Soldiers. Western settlement/frontier. American history-Buffalo Soldiers, Indians, westward expansion. Very much so.  Our historic facilities are vital to future generations. Yes. Its role in western expansion. Showed soldier life in the 1880s, especially black soldiers. A wonderful site and important in history for the state. Historical value-education. History and culture. History of westward expansion and the army's role in protecting citizens. How our nation was protected. It is extremely important to preserve our history (especially military) and this is important due to purpose of fort. It relates a heritage that people take for granted.  Keeps people from rewriting history. Preserving our history. The historical impact on our country's development. Great history. It is one of the BEST preserved and restored frontier forts in America. National treasure. Part of settling the West. The history. To remember those who fought to develop the West. Very significant.  Must preserve our history for future generations. Very significant.  Very important to our national history. History of military lifestyle, travel west and protection of civilians, in addition to war with Indians. Nature-spectacular example.  History-exhibits very informative.  Staff knowledgeable. Nature....  It is so beautiful!  Preservation is imperative, loved it. It shows our history/heritage; very educational and a source of pride for out country and the people who were part of creating it."
233,City of Rocks NRes,CIRO,"Historical reference for understanding current need for connection to the land. Part of the Route-California Trail.  World class climbing destination. Amazing family recreation activities. It was very good.  It had beautiful ---- and didn't hour to many cars on the road. It has unique features that you can't find any where else. Interesting area. Physical connections to history of the westward expansion. Geology, ----. A treasure. Geologically unique area with world class recreational activities, have met climbers from around the globe here, and are proud of its Federal protected status. Unique Rock Formations not seen any where else in the Country.  Historical marker of people moving West. Beautiful and should be preserved.  Nice balance of use of land.  Thanks. America climbing and outdoor rec. Epic climbing. natural beauty, unique landscape historical significance. Unique biology and opportunities with history lessons to explore, camp, mt. bike climb etc in a vast setting surrounded by private property. Unique granite formations in a pristine high desert setting, infused with the history of our country's settlers. Natural beauty, US history. Unique Natural formations, pioneer history. California trail, climbing history, natural patrimony. Opening of the West, history of American climbing. Unique rock formations (climbing), wilderness quality (Fauna/Flora), quiet historical valve. The setters are significant to our nations expanse and the park is a geological Landmark and a rock climbing Mecca. Very beautiful with incredible rock formations trials-very good condition. Amazing history and geology! Fantastic recreation. Geographical beauty. Amazing rock formations that attract people at all climbing abilities, children and adults alike can come enjoy nature and learn to rock climb. Great. Unique. This park preserves and makes accessible some of the oldest exposed rock features in the country. Beautiful impression on all who have passed through. Unique ecosystem exceptional recreation opportunity. ---- Excellent recreation, natural and cultural history. History and awesome geology. Unique majesty of rock towers and historic wagon trail. Preserving the vast ---- hasn't changed in 100 yrs. Would class rock climbing, beautiful landscape. Preserving the wagon trail signatures and pathway, and unique majesty of the rocky terrain. One of the best and most unique climbing destinations in the American West.  Especially for families and people seeking fun moderate climbing.  Also obvious historical significance. Love it-rock formations are awesome. Rock climbing and horseback riding. It is very gratifying to ride on trails that were used in the 1850's. Rock climbing and horseback riding. It's beauty. The scenery, terrain, rock formations. Cool rock formations. Climbing. Very significant. This is a wonderful geologic site.  We have come here at least 2x a year to climb.  And love it!  Please celebrate the climbers! Beginning of California trail. Very significant. City of Rocks is a unique and incredible climbing destinations.  There are few if any other places in the U.S. that have this world class climbing in a remote, but accessible area. It provides an ---- with opportunities for all types of outdoor recreational activities. Beautiful place for hiking and climbing. CA trail history, climbing. On its own it is a great natural treasure and when combined with our own nation's history it is invaluable. It is unique in terms of its geology.  The scenery is magnificent.  It has great historical relevance.  It offers great recreational facilities. Awesome, lots of west history and really a beautiful place off the beaten path. Geology, historical, recreational, wildlife and ecology. 0 Variety of outdoor activities were excellent.  The trails were all well marked. Geologic features and landscape!  Excellent rock climbing. Geological formations.  Historical-California trail. I learned a lot about pioneers heritage and geology.  Would come again in a heartbeat.  Learned lots about park programs. Mother nature. This park preserves the American love adventure and the outdoors! Very unique climbing and hiking opportunities. Wild beauty, geology, climbing recreation.  We love that there are no concessions and that the campground management is government. Geological uniqueness. Beautiful, great climbing. Immigrants of the California trail history as well as geological elements. Most beautiful place on earth! Grand father homesteaded in the area. Western immigration and unique and beautiful geology. Wonderful history. The history and beauty. Oregon Trail Settlers, geologically awesome. Astonishing natural beauty.  Oregon Trail mementoes. Great public recreation. The spectacular and unique rock formations. Beautiful place with great recreation and an escape from reality. Best climbing and beautiful. The significance of this Park is the beautiful rock formations and climbing, hiking and ---- available around the area. California Trail and migration of Pioneers West. Outdoor recreation and preserving the history of the ---- West. Outdoor recreation and preserving a geological wonder of the USA! Outdoor excellence, climbing variety, biking, hiking and walking trails (beauty!). An incredible scenic and climbing destination. Rock Climbing is World Class Quality. It shows beautiful scenery and carries a lot of history that is significant to our Nation. Historic California Trail location and National recognized rock climbing. It's great that there is so much nature that is undisturbed, yet very accessible. California Trail-Geology-Climbing. Of course, the history of the migration on the California Trail; and the unparalleled recreational possibilities for the citizens of the U.S. and all others. Enjoyed California Trail Info. The Park provides unique geological and biological attractions.  The Park provides excellent equestrian trails. Beautiful natural setting. Access to natural resources. Appreciation and understanding of California Trail. Great preservation of National Resources.  Incredibly clean and maintained Park.  Amazing! History and unique geology. It is public land do not privatize. The Park is nice. Unique rock formations and history.  Natural beauty-great place bike, climb, ride horses, camp, wild flowers. Any park preserved is of national and environmental significance.  Also historical and cultural importance.  This is my 14 family trip to ""The City"". I am here to use equestrian trails but my 5th grade daughter recently came for a class field trip and enjoyed it ----. Some congressional brought tourist to his district beautiful place, not to many people.  Helpful staff we enjoyed our great staff that will be back. Rock climbing history and cultural history. It displays an unusual landscape for the public to enjoy, explore and appreciate.  An awesome place! City of Rocks is worth HIGHEST level protection of it's natural values. An historically important rock climbing center, with world-class rock climbing. Great climbing!  Great company loaded question, a park is a park. Unusual geography and California Trail. On route for the Oregon trail/trails west.  The unique landscape. Geologic and historical significance. A placed preserved for those to appreciate the natural beauty of mother nature and for those to learn about ecology, geology, botany, and other natural sciences. Great place for all people bike, hike, climb, bicycle. The climbing. Culture/history, preservation of nature, recreation (rock climbing). Preserving and telling tale of California Trail. History (CA Trail) and preservation of natural places. One of the best and most historic rock camping areas in the country.  Also, California Trail history is significant. I would rather it not have a national significance it has gotten to busy.  I miss being able to show up on the fly with no reservations. Hiking climbing history. Historical value. Very cool place to see.  A great place for rock climber or anyone who wants to get away from it all. Great park to come and recreate! California trail geology. Historical stop on emigrant trail. Historic trail and unbelievable rock climbing. History of Calif. Trail, Granite Batholith-geology and amazing formations. Recreation. California Trail.  Pristine outdoors.  Climbing. Historical landmark for original settlers of the nation.  Secondary benefit-later established phenomenal climbing. Natural beauty and unique ecosystem. Preserving national jewel of rock formations!  Keeping it protected from overuse and allowing public to enjoy. Interesting geology and recreation opportunities. National wonder, ---- ---- ----. Keep some of this country undeveloped. Very much so! Great climbing, very interesting geology. The California Trail and the emigrants of the mid-1800s to modern-day climbers. Very unusual rock formations. California Trail. Best kept secret. Big rocks are cool. Cultural landscape. Preserving the rock formations for future generations. Telling tale of California trail. National treasure as a rock climbing resource. Natural beauty and cultural significance to the Western expansion. Emigrant trail, part of California Trail.  Plus unique rock formations and bird populations.  Love the birds and this park. Geology and climbing. Great significance because of natural beauty and historical/archaeological sites. Historical immigrant route; world-class recreational opportunities."
234,Christiansted NHS,CHRI,"Remembering history. History of the Virgin Islands. History of this island. Like-known history about the importance of the islands. History of the development of christiansted. History. It's a significant part of world history and globalization. As the area cultural around the fort have centuries it is very important to retrain. Maintains valuable history, encourages further study (learning) about history. Very high from a Danish view. Preservation of St. Croix cultural heritage. The different cultures. History of St. Croix. The fort represents what it was like historically in the plantation era and under Dutch rule. another fort. Historic, culturally and educationally. It keeps St. Croix's history alive and enlightens visitors. It marks the change in ownership of the island and shows what life was like for Danish overseers. To learn the history of St. Croix and it's heritage. History preservation and education. A lot of history!! History. Seeing Danish influence, and past, present history of local architectural and social events. The history of St. Croix and her people. Keep history alive. Historic of the early occupation and eventual U.S. purchase. History is always very important if we would only learn from it! History. Horrible history of slavery. I loved it.  The feeling of stepping back in time to when freedom was not for all, make you thank God! General history, social history, history of slavery and emancipation. To preserve the site and explain the past. Shows heritage of diverse communities. It is another facet among others that played a part in the development of the USA and other established ""western"" cultures and government. Caribbean colonial history, Alexander Hamilton. Very well preserved site.  Historically interesting.  One of the best in the Caribbean. History of early years on St. Croix. History of town and what people endured. To tell the history of the Danish West India in Christian ----. History of West Indies. The impact of Trans Atlantic slave trade. History that should never be forgotten. Important not a well known aspect of history so needs to be available to people. Historical significance. Great time. History! The historical efforts to preserve this great nation it's freedoms. To remind us of the sacrifices made by money in the name of progress. Most people would have no idea about the V.I.'s history. To learn about the history of Islands and it's people. Extremely valuable for understanding history and culture of area. To tell the history. Education and general interest in the history of the Island. Historical significance. The plight of the slaves. Historical. Good example of Dutch W. Indies fortifications and good exhibits on slavery. Very good for historical significance. Historical.. Very high. History. Demonstrates the influence of Dutch Rule and trade, the economy based on sugar and slave trade.  Transfer to U.S. and significant historical figures. Historical and educational. Very important. Historical site. History. I loved learning about this history of the area, we loved the pictures we could get as well!  Awesome! Heritage/Pride/Sense of History. Very old Forts are ----. High. History. Its significance as a fort prior to the U. S. purchasing the islands. Love history. The Alexander Hamilton family history was particularly interesting! Yes. One can only imagine without our own adventures we would have never have known the U.S. Gov't should be ashamed.  Send ---- Tells of the history on America acquiring the Virgin Islands and history on how they were developed. This park shows the violent but valuable history of trade and slavery as well as the background of Christiansted culture. To make younger generations recognize past events. Telling about the history of the fort and town surrounding it, who owned it, about the locals and about the era and how it affected the ppl. Historical. History and preservation. Very, very important. I am a Dane and not the right person to talk for the US nation.  For Danes it is an important, yet forgotten past. Buildings remind me of military buildings in Denmark. Historic US territorial expansion. Danish history. History hardly mentioned elsewhere, colonial legacy, and cool architecture. Danish history/heritage of St. Croix. The history. Educational. Being from Denmark I'm very thankful for the NPS taking care of our common Danish, Crucian and US history. Interesting to see the history. This is the center VI history.  Beautifully restored and maintained. Part of US colonial history. Good American history example. Historic perspective. It's good to learn from our pasts. Very significant. History of evolution of our country. It's historical structure and what it represents. Very important to document and remember the colonial part of the island. Historic gem-architecture and history. It's important to Danish people to learn about our colony history and slave trading. The pre US history of this location greatly reflects the culture of the island, it's economic and political impact on the US and the future of US history moving forward. History historical significance. Great, we came from Denmark. To tell, interpret, describe, demonstrate, preserve. History of the territory. Significant historical event. History. Influence to region, Alexander Hamilton's upbringing. It is of great importance for us, as we are from Denmark and it is a part of the Danish history. Historic Danish occupation in the ----. Historical value important, plus it's fun to see a fort! History of site. It is reflective of the history of the US and it's transfer of ownership of the land. Historical changing of countries. Alexander Hamilton story, story of slavery and US purchase of the VI. This is very important to maintain.  Very important to history of this territory. Great piece of history for the kids. History and legacy. The fort and trade. The history of the USVI. Rich history of slavery, fishing and every day life. Very important historic site, both for Danes and Americans. Great. History of the area visual was helpful. Love the history. Alexander Hamilton's mom's cell. Provides valuable insight to our ---- history as a nation, both good and bad. Teach about history. Extremely significant in understanding the history of the island. We come from Denmark and we find the site very interesting for our national history. Historic. Great history, lots of incredible natural beauty and resources. History of island. Excellent. The establishment and protection of St. Croix. Alexander Hamilton and trade references were of value to founding years of USA. Beautiful landmark very informational. Historic educational cultural. It is everybody's history and we all need to know this. It is history and is displayed very well. Protected the Danish government against invaders. One of the jewels of the Caribbean significant because of how it was maintained. Very significant and interesting history. Historical insight and knowledge. The history of the Danish West dwellers. The opportunity to inform public about history of island and how they came to be part of US.  The economic advantage of the transfer should be celebrated. Being from Denmark it is a great experience to see Danish cultural heritage taken care of. Very valuable for St. Croix rich history. The history between Denmark and the US. Very informational about Fort history and slavery. Shows how transfer to US and defense of the island occurred.  Excellent site.  I love our US parks. Very significant to USVI history! Danish roots/origin. A great learning experience about U. S. presence in the Caribbean. Historic site. Defensive port protection. Very interesting history lesson. Preserves history of area, the treatment of various social classes and environmental protection. Information on how the Islands were acquired and the treatment of slaves from Africa. History. It illustrates how brutal the Colonists were to slaves and others of African descent. Shows the history of all the different countries that controlled this area BEFORE it belonged to the U.S. The history. As a Dane I like the historical part. Chronicles early life in Christiansted and its impact on current culture. To tell the history of Christiansted and daily life of the people that lived here. Local history. Important historical museum of colonialism, slavery and architecture. Incredible, really enjoyed. It's history. Very-current interest in Alexander Hamilton.  Thank you!  Makes this very interesting! Historical. Important value.  Beautiful."
235,North Cascades NP,NOCA,"Extreme beauty. To preserve the natural beauty and wild areas left. The mountains, lakes, waterfalls, and trails, through gigantic trees are all precious and deserve to be preserved. Geology of region seen up close.  History of utilities and nature go existing. Geology, glaciers, scenery. To preserve the history, nature, wildlife of the area, including glaciers and flow of electricity from water to other parts of the state. Preservation and use of a wonderful natural area. This is my home park.  I visit and hike it five to ten times a year.  It is a magical place most worthy of being a national park. The redwoods and the coast. Unsure.  It certainly is beautiful, but from what limited I was in 1.5 days it felt similar to all the Cascades.  Why this section? Bears, mountains, learning. The beauty of the mountains, rivers and lakes. Great Cascades viewing. A beautiful place, unusual. I don't know. My wife and I are 83 years old, we are checking off our bucket list!! It ----. The North Cascades are some of the most beautiful mountains in the US, and walk the trails, campgrounds recreational areas are wonderful. Amazing natural beauty! Beauty. The scenery is beautiful and relatively unspoiled. North Cascades is the park which comes closest to the idea of wilderness in the lower 48 states. Saving the land. Protection of the wilderness/habitat for animals that have limited space in the lower 48 like grizzlies and wolverines. Beautiful mountains and lakes-habitat for much wildlife. Preserves a unique area of our country for the enjoyment and education of all and future citizens! Splendor, rest. To help our ride and young people and some who really don't know what this country is really about. Beauty.  Glaciers and resulting terrain and wildlife. Stands for the slogan ""America the Beautiful"". Preserving the Glaciers and Mountains and natural habitat for the wildlife. Preservation of wilderness, scenic beauty, education, recreation. The wilderness, it's perfect. Preservation of land and culture! The uniqueness of the North Cascades and Volcanoes. Just driving through I was amazed.  Can't wait to hike! The untamed, breath taking beauty. Critical chance to visit nature. Keeping nature accessible yet pure important to humanity! Most Glaciers in lower 48.  Beautiful. Natural beauty. Important geological structure and natural beauty that should be preserved.  Also animal habitat preservation. To maintain and protect natural habitat. The opportunity to see the environment and culture which surrounds the mountains and the nature ----. Preserving nature, education. Open space clears the mind and soul, and this park is at the very top.  Great place!  Thanks for maintaining so well! Glaciers and biodiversity. Gateway to North Cascades. Nature. History for forest fires and ----. It's location in the N. Cascades at the head of one of the most beautiful lakes in North America. Incredible beauty. Protection of wild area and access to wild areas minus air fields. It is a beautiful treasure we must preserve. Valuable, undeveloped wild space. To preserve the beauty of natural American! Great maintains and wilderness. The geographically-specific beauty of the northern cascades, specifically the bodies of water and mountains (but, heck, all of it). It's nature, and separation from modern busy life. Beauty.  History. Pristine wilderness and wild berries. ---- to Lake Chelen remote beauty; access to N. Cascades national park. It maintains the natural beauty of the area while still providing comparable lodging. Have no clue. Most beautiful and wild mountains in the U.S. It's preservation is enough but it has it's own unique beauty, geologic history etc. Sets a side land for wild life and future generations to enjoy. Unique and beautiful setting. Preservation of ---- part of the world. Beauty, learn history and appreciation of area loveliness. Outstanding wilderness. Great opportunities for people to see natural beauty. Very unique beauty and access to wilderness activities. Beauty, history, habitat, eco-system services. Good re-supply point on the pct. I very much appreciate the preservation and management of all the parks.  It's so nice to have accessible natural area. Lake Chelan on time preservation of the entire area around it. One of the most beautiful places in the country, simultaneously remote and accessible. Remoteness. Shows the beauty of the northwest. There is nothing like it anywhere use in the U.S. This needs to be available and maintained.  It is amazing place to be. The history. No National significance but lots of local tradition and resources.  We loved the locals. The North Cascades are one of America's crown jewels in terms of beauty, unique geology and bio complexity.  In wilderness is the preservation of the world. Remoteness hiking adaptability. Spectacular experience in nature. Preserved wilderness and history.  Remoteness of park is significant.  Non-commercialized. History of Washington. Wilderness, unspoiled. Ruggedness and beauty. Natural beauty-wilderness and PRESERVATION. Unspoiled wilderness. Natural beauty!! Remoteness, nature. The unparalleled beauty of this area-beyond comparison. Preserve nature in almost original state for future generations. Ecological preservation. It's stunning scenery! Access to wilderness and outdoor activities for all levels of abilities. It's a badass town, help people connect with outside. Preservation! Prime wilderness area! The easy access to trail and nature. The rugged beauty and easy access. Almost unequaled natural beauty, high alpine access, a clean natural place to connect with God's creation. Rugged beauty! Natural beauty."
236,Steamtown NHS,STEA,"The history of railroads and their influence in the industrialization of the United States. Yes-good history of trains as part of nations back ground. Railroads built America. Of great historical significance. Preserving American history and the impact of steam trains. Great railroad history. The history of steam engines and their significance to coal mining. Railroads enabled America to grow and provided employment for many. RR history. Industrial history, rail. This park represents a revolutionary time in our history and spot lights local history as well. This park is critically important for our children. History. Preservation of steam power. It depicts the importance of the railroad industry and the significance of transportation and trade. Excellent Bill Clark is helpful.  Give him a glance. Shows the importance of the train system in the expansion of the U.S.. Amazing unique site within NPS! Trains. How the expansion of the nation was accomplished. Locomotives are an integral reason for our nations growth.  The history of the railroad reminds us of how amazing Americas industry is. History of steam/railroading. History of different trains, used for America, workers especially 1800 to 1900, help during WWII. A tool to teach young and old about the past and where we came from and what a great place we live in today. History of trains/steam engines/railroads.  And how people lived using trains.  Also engineering and science were learned from the exhibits. Railroading history. Keeping steam locomotives alive for future generations. Recognizing and understanding the importance and history of steam locomotion in the local region. Provides an insight into American railroad people, history and locomotive/rolling stock. Trains. Education/film. National transportation. Preserves/tells the history of railroads-especially the regionally important DL and W. 0 History of the railroad. The historical significance of our railroad industry is tantamount to the economics of the time. Documents Rail Roading past in the local area. Important preservation of age of age of steam. The industry dominated the 19th and 20th century.  VERY important to American history. Important part of industrial history. Historically relevant period beautifully presented. History from my days. To honor the importance of the railroads in building our country-Scranton was very important in this. Preserve the history of railroads and how they helped develop the expansion of the US and tell the story of the people of the railroads. Very rich in local history.  A true asset for Nation. Steam-powered railroads helped shape the industrial aspect of America. The park represents a time when our nation grew economically.  It made our nation smaller with faster transportation. Preserves steam engine and RR history and it's significance to building our country. History of westward expansion/city to country. This park is very important to our history.  It gives children an opportunity to experience things from our past.  It is connected ---- to our own family heritage. The early railroads are a significant part of US history that our children and grandchildren know little about. The information the rangers gave me and my family."
237,Jefferson NEM,JEFF,"It was an early feat of engineering brilliance. Memorial to the Gateway to the West and Thomas Jefferson.  Good to know about westward expansion. Gateway to the West. This showed the Gateway Arch to the West. ---- West ward expansion of the USA. Teaching about history. How Americans can accomplish wonders and the reason for to be grateful. The civil war. The historic opening and exploration of the Westward expansion. Arch=gateway to U.S. Westward expansion. Very ---- decision. Expansion of the U.S. into the west.  It would be more inclusive if the exhibits were more honest about the negative impact western expansion had on the Native American cultures.  To call the Homestead Act the most important in U.S. history arrogantly ignores the decimation of the Native American cultures it caused! Westward expansion. Westward expansion. Gateway to the West.  It's a really pretty park.  And even with the renovations very nice. I teach westward expansion.  This is great. The Arch represents westward expansion. It's the nations history, so it's pretty significant. ----. Westward expansion. A recognizable national icon commemorating the Westward expansion of the US. Manifest Destiny. Good focal point on Westward expansion. It is the gateway to the West.  I thought the ---- was awesome. To know the history! Gives everyone an opportunity to see how great America is. It is a jewel. Gateway to the West national symbol of manifest destiny. ---- Building of it very interesting!  Amazing how it came to be. Dred Scott case was heard here. Gateway to the Westward expansion starting point to move West. Development and expansion of the USA. It provides a glimpse of the frontier. Expansion of Jefferson Memorial. It is a great architectural feet. Lewis and Clark Westward Expansion. It is ---- honoring ---- of change and ----. The significance does not matter if handicapped people can not access the park.  Some people in my party could not visit because they could not walk 2 blocks from the nearest parking ----. Westward ----. I get chills.  History is magnificent. Marks the heroic spirit of Americans that led to its standing as a model nation to the world, hopefully something we will one day be again. It's the Gateway to the West!  Historically it is incredibly significant! The beginning of Civil Rights. Gateway to the west. Symbolizes a movement of expansion and American excellent. Seeing in person the 'Gateway to the West' and more importantly the work ethic it took to build. Very important to Saint Louis and the country. American history. It's the Gateway to the West.  Westward expansion. Sounds ---- best Gateway to the West. The Gateway to this west-how cool. That America in the Gilded Age had advanced building techniques and were able to create great steel structures.  Its significance is ---- ----. Open ---- ----. The nations expansion West after the Louisiana Purchase. Westward expansion of the nation to fulfill America's ""Manifest Destiny"". Commemorates role St. Louis played as Gateway to the West. History of Dred Scott decision and Gateway to the West-westward expansion. The Arch is the main thing. The history of our country and its westward expansion. A memorial/teaching tool for not only history but also for understanding the American dream. It commemorates the Western expansion of our Country.  It's an engineering marvel that every one should visit.  The movie was interesting. Monument to Westward expansion. ---- It connects visitors to Lewis and Clark, and the western expansion.  Puts Dred Scott in a historical perspective. This is the Gateway to Westward expansion, we were sad the museum was closed. It helps demonstrate the role of western Europe in our nation's history. We enjoyed the historical significance of ---- ---- and the opening of the West Territory. It was very nice to visit and experience this site, despite the extensive construction going on.  Glad we went! Reminder of the exploration to the West and creativity of engineering."
238,Saint Croix/Lower Saint Croix NSR,SACN,"Scenery-beauty-wildlife. The beauty of the river and the lack of development for such a long stretch. The Namekagon River is a treasure.  The canoeing, camping, fishing and swimming are first rate. To provide educational, environmental and leisurely opportunities. Been visiting since 1970's, very nice facility. Preserving a pristine water way with species of ---- fish not seen ----. Historical contribution-and natural beauty. Clean, historical body of water, ability to kayak, canoe, tube to enjoy wilderness. To see the history of logging in our area. Preservation of ecosystem and its history and historical significance. Protecting the river for wildlife and future generations of people. Maintain natural river. Clean water, scenic views. Clean water, scenic views. The preservation of this unique river eco system is truly priceless. The St. Croix has important history with Native Americans, loggers and railroad. This park preserves a water way that is of great environmental significance, in addition to preserving the history of Minnesota's logging trade. Access to the beautiful St. Croix scenic National Riverway. The beautiful St. Croix River shows what rivers can be if we take care of them. Preservation and appreciation of the natural environment and native habitats. Mary Hoffman brought value into my life. The amazing River! We learned a lot about the Nation and though that it was great. There are amazing geographic landmarks in this area and preservation of them is very important. The history of the area with the Logging and Natives. It is accessible to all ages and abilities, wildlife, history, defines the region, geologic story. Protection of wildlife, vegetation and river. It preserves an important and beautiful natural resource. St. Croix River. This park preserves the beauty of this natural area and the tours provide historical background and enhance appreciation. A major waterway for enjoyment and use. The preservation of nature along and on the St. Croix River. Beautiful scenic waterway.  Please protect and expand all our national parks. The natural resources it protects, especially the mussel populations. Best kept secret. Natural water way. Natural wild river area-to keep area natural and clean water for all to experience into the future. Preserving St. Croix River for kayakers, boaters, eagles, Blue Heron, wildlife sanctuary. Protect the waterways from development and environmental concerns.  The rivers are wild, scenic and never can you experience it the same way twice.  Always different. It is a great representation of the Midwest's beautiful riverways.  It showcases nature at its finest with minimal human influence. Beautiful scenery.  Great waterway (flooded when we were there, but want to go back). Historical and wild scenic beauty. It is a beautiful, scenic area that is very pristine and inviting. ON a terrific clean river. Beautiful scenery and wildlife. It was the cradle of Minnesota's birth. Great unspoiled view of scenic river and rock forms.  River is still wild and undeveloped. Observe nature and public recreation. The River is gorgeous. It is on a State border. The River. Historically it was a track through route and the biology of the area/invasive species research/watch. One of the First National Rivers; exceptional water quality and scenic value, proximity to population and recreation value. Park/water should be available to all citizens and should be kept in natural state (as much as possible). Astonishingly available, well taken care of-maintained. It was probably one of the first National Parks in MN and WI. A wild and special place! Park was ----. The St. Croix River is critical ---- habitat for birds and waterfowl.  Important migratory stop area. Beauty, natural tranquility. The natural beauty of the river way. The fact that the river shoreline is undeveloped and still wild-this river has unique habitat for several endangered species. Natural beauty. It preserves this magnificent place for many future generations while providing homes for the many creatures within. Importance of preserving the beauty and purity of waterways.  (Please retain the FREE pontoon rides!) The unique landscape and ecosystem. The history, beauty, culture, wild life. To educate people ---- the importance at saving our national areas-especially the St. Croix ---- We consider it to be one of our local treasures. Preservation for future generations.  Understanding of sizes of lands through time. Saint Croix River. Access to St. Croix river way. To show God's gifts of rivers and how vital it is to protect rivers for future generations. If we don't treasure and care for our natural wild spaces, they soon will be gone-and no wild animals! Natural beauty of area. It's outstanding scenic qualities...preservation of it's natural state undeveloped land bordering the rivers. Great, clean river, lots of canoeing.  Significance is enjoyment by citizens. Wild and mostly underdeveloped rivers area rare.  The 'St. Croix"" is an important gem. Preservation on Riverway; it has been saved from development! Wild rivers are inherently significant and we need more of them. I consider the National Scenic River Way an economic and geographical as well as a recreational jewel of NW Wisconsin."
239,Vanderbilt Mansion NHS,VAMA,"Preserve history. Gilded Age lifestyle.  Hudson River scenery. How wealthy Americans lived in the early 1900's and what their values were. Learn about the ---- of the age.  How they lived, ---. Historic remnants of age of American history. Example of gilded age life. Represents a period of time for a class of people that lead the country. It has tremendous regional significance, but not much national significance.  Unlike the FDR museum library, which does. Excellent example of the Gilded age in American history. Yes, it shows aspects of the Industrial Revolution. Historical/knowledge for a new generation. Golden age of our history.  How the wealthy spent their time and monies, in life and after death. Great source of history. Exhibit of the ""gilded age"" unlike many of the other ""cottages"", ""modest"".  Arboretum/gardens/scenic outlook of the Hudson. To show was the life style of rich people in 2005. To show how they lived in the gilded age. Recalling a part of the Gilded Age. It's all about it's historical value to our country. Learning about gilded age, how rich people lived. Learning about the way family lived and entertained and about their history. Captures a moment in history. Insight into the gilded age. History is essential.  Beauty of setting. Great historical resource. It tells our history and accents the lives of people who helped shape it. Home area of one of the most important presidents-beloved accomplished-served all. Protecting lost age of our culture. History/Beauty. This is a significant example of elite life during the gilded age. Would be nice to have trail along the Hudson. An excellent example of the gilded age.  Really impressed that all the furnishings are original which is not after the case. They help us remember where we came from. How hard work enabled Mr. Vanderbilt to afford his estate. It's representation of the Gilded Age. To preserve and educate our youth on American history. Example of the riches of the few in the early Industrial Revolution. Very good to see the home of the family that built Grand Central Station. It is vitally important to maintain these links to our past.  I loved everything in Hyde Park and the Vanderbilt house. It is a fabulous snap shot of history, perfectly preserved and as it was when the family lived there. Gilded Age. It shows a side of Western Architecture and horticulture that is no longer created.  Our history was built for posterity. Everything (tour of mansion) was well run.  We had a great time. Wonderful to see the period lifestyle without having to pay the ridiculous prices of the Biltmore Estate.  Very interesting. Very important about what contributions they provided, so fascinating. Represents a period of history. Historical. It's a part of American history. Shows wealth of a golden age. Show excess of the ---- age experience when visiting the nearby for retirement modest home great gift shop merchandise.  I spent $30 on a new hat! To see a mansion built in the golden age. To provide us a true representation of the Gilded Age. A good example of Gilded Age Estate Living and Lavish Living. Show an Era and Preservation. To preserve the beauty of the grounds and home for appreciation of the property. History of a specific era. It provides a cultural view of the opulence in the United States in the early 1900's. Gilded era example. Example of gilded age. Symbolize industrial revolution era/---- lifestyle. It shows the opportunities for success in the United States of America. To view the ---- of a historical era gone by. Preservation of history of an era the gilded age in our country, ----  art is magnificent. Most definite!  The history of the Vanderbilt's and the beginning of public transport in the U.S. To show an example of the Golden Age home. History-glimpse into past. Very little. Highlights the gilded age (and excesses) and the relationship between the river and commerce and beauty as well as the contacts. Shows the gilded age. Education. Maintain historical info/sharing knowledge. As an example of architecture and landscape design of the late 19th c. It represents the culture of    the Gilded Age and how the family contributed to early transportation. Evidence of a bygone era. Fairly significant in relation to the gilded eye. History-life and living of the past.  Very informative and interesting to me.  Very enjoyable. To show what it was like to live in the gilded age. Yes, it's a unique example of that style ""mansion"" and life; for me it's important because my dad and most of his family worked for New York Central R.R.. Ranger Kevin did a SUPERB job in giving information and a tour. Invaluable to understanding our recent history and current events. As it was pointed out by the ranger nothing a historical significance happens here.  However what a great example of the Gilded Age! It illustrates a significant period in our country's history. Great example of Golden age, architecture. It's a great historical site in the area and show cases a piece of social/---- history that is rarely taught but equally important and valuable. Historical value. The Vanderbilt mansion HHS is a first-hand window into a economic and social era which defined our nation's identity as it evolved. The Gilded Age of America."
240,Ellis Island,ELIS,"It provides those of us born here with a means to visit our ancestors travels to our country. The basis of people to come to this country to assimilate and have the opportunities to who they want.  The establishment of a historical ----. Shows the value and diversity of immigrants (and I learned today that limiting immigration) was just as big a hot potato in 1909 and 1919 as NOW! It helps remind us of who we are. It shows a detailed art through look into the past and present history of immigration into America. Learning center for younger generations. Yes it is very important. Cultural and historical significance of our ancestry. Preservation and education concerning the historical and cultural importance of immigration to the United States. Immigration. This is one of the most significant of all.  This was the beginning of so many lives.  You feel the spirit of eagerness in this place. A major immigration center that affected numerous people trying to get into this country. Important piece of American history, immigration then and now, especially given politicizing of immigration currently. Remembering the past and walking in the footsteps of my ancestors from Sweden. The immigration story is everyone's story. Very good. Provides a history of immigration and it's impact on the building of America. Freedom. This park is a symbol of the importance of imagination. Yes. Welcoming immigrants to the United States. The historic background of how a strong Nation was incorporated complementing human's different origins. Celebrate immigration to the U.S. It is an example of what our Country needs to be.  In light of the Presidential Race  it's very appropriate.  NO WALL. Connection to so many Americans, symbol of freedom for those who appreciate life. My ----. I never knew what my grandparents experienced coming here until I went to Ellis Island. The cultural history of the American Immigration Experience. It helps us understand our origins and the real life meaning of the melting pot. The impact on scores of immigrants wanted to learn more about Ellis Island immigrants. Educating and reminding citizens of how this country was built. It represents and tells the story of immigration to the US which is how most US citizens and their ancestors got here. Valuable historical legacy to our growth. It tells about the immigration in the early times, and shows that this country is like a melting pot for everybody to start new life. This park signifies early America, it's immigrants and the symbol of freedom. History of immigration and thus of the American nation. The gateway to citizenship, an absolute necessity!  America started here.  A good lesson for modern times. Ellis Island-speaks for itself. It's a great example of who American's are. The history of this country has some of it's strongest roots in Ellis Island. History of immigration and the ""American dream"". Immigration. It's good to know our history so we don't make racist bias about immigration. The importance of bringing people in and out of USA. I might not be here, because my ancestors came through Ellis Island from Poland. Freedom-Statue of Liberty. Ellis Island is extremely significant as one of the nation's signature icons and its importance in the history of immigration. The significance is immigration and how it was done in the beginning. Knowing millions came through the island was a blast to revisit.  Being around an area once hopping with people from all over the world is amazing. Freedom-opportunity."
241,Gulf Islands NS,GUIS,"Defense and history so very cool. American freedom. Used for P.O.W.S. It's high quality experience. Preserving natural areas for present and future generations. Protecting wild life diversity. Fort Massachusetts was a memorable and interesting fort during the Civil War. The use of the Water Cistern was advanced. Barrier islands are crucial to maintaining integrity of the mainland shoreline and survival of species of animal life. Built as a ---- A great historical treasure a wonderful place to connect with nature. A good place for R and R. ---- your people about history and nature. Protect coastal waterways/shoreline. The history that is present can be felt through the exhibits. The information provided gave me a good indication of how this fort was an integral part in wars. Learning ---- what age. Defense, den of military, proving grounds.  Everyone! Arlene, Dale. The people were friendly and very helpful!  Everything was clean!! Showed it's importance in time of War. It shows the spirit of America in wanting to defend her shores from enemy attack. Important part of history. Preservation of Ft Pickens, recreation area (beach and trails) wildlife and Natural preservation. Ship Island is part of Gulf National Seashore, a national treasure on the Gulf. As a military establishment. The beauty of ---- and marsh, water. Sightseeing, beautiful beach and water. Nature, animals, beautiful waters, white sand, seagulls. History of our country and the protection of citizens. Preservation of pristine Barrier Islands. Eco System. Great to preserve our history so people can observe about the past. Staff is the most friendliest I've ever met, they are very nice. 0 A lot of nature and learning. Educational/history. Historical landmark-barrier islands provide much needed protection to shores. Info. on natural wildlife in the area and history. It was a Military ---- built during Civil War. Keeping beaches undeveloped! Presentation of resources and education of the public. The War history. This Park has huge significance to the local area and our history.  I took my 8 and 10 year old daughters today and they loved it. Very good. Very important to the eco system. Preserve beaches from commercialism. It's historical significance and a natural treasure. Gulf coast. The fort as an historical monument. Nice beach for the kids. Unspoiled seashore. A ---- for family, a gift from Jehovah God! Preserve history. Natural water park and wildlife habitat. Extremely significant. Learn about bayous. Provides a well cared for piece of military history, in a beautiful place. The whole island is amazing. Availability to access the banner island-beautiful! This park is significant-because we are from Massachusetts my mom just moved here and oh HISTORY, NATURE AMERICA. Valuable, as is all history. If our parks are not established ---- all of nature. ---- our children ----. Nature. Fort. Good history ---- ---- Nesting sea birds, fishing, sightseeing. ---- It's really ---- and pretty sometimes the water is rough but I love it here. Employees. Fort, Civil War, Geronimo. Very important. ---- Natural habitats, history. Shows how Gulf Is. Seashore is important. Barrier Islands. Nesting turtles and birds! The sightseeing and seeing animals in the natural environment. The Fort. History and nature study. Outstanding ---- ---- ---- ----. History and wild life. Great educational resource for home schooled children. Preserve natural area learning about our country. To show coastal gulf habitats. Old forts and secluded ----. Protecting wild life and nature, preserving for future generations. The wonder of the gulf. To show case the natural beauty of the state of MS; and the importance of preserving natural green spaces and native wild life. Preserving what little uncommercialized beaches we have left to the public!  Saving/education about wildlife!  P.S. We loved the Ambassador Cassidy! Preserving public/wildlife in beaches. An example of Florida's unique history including Spanish Civil War. Gulf coast marine and wildlife. Local park. To ensure preservation of the various military posts and pristine beaches. Become one with nature. Very important to local economy. Visitors. Availability, usage, history. Saving parts of the wild to experience for our youth. Seashore. Fort. To educate the public on its history. Great area for families. Florida/Civil War history. TO know where we came from. Protection. History of defense of ---- bay. Tremendous.  GINS is a national treasure that should always be preserved. Very significant for ---- use of the citizens and visitors. Preservation of natural environment preservation of wildlife. To keep our nation's historical landmarks ever present for all generations. Very significant.  It shows parts of the Civil War and how it shaped our nation. It shows how this area looked in the past. 0 Protection. Natural beauty/protection. Protection of sovereignty-we have borders and defend them aggressively! Preservation of park. This park has huge historical significance to both Pensaiola and America. It's part of our heritage and important. 0 Historic value and education of national heritage. Very important. To learn the history and to honor those before us. History. Preserve history. The history of America, especially battle history. Early history. Great facilities. History of our wars. Outstanding job and park info by RANGER GAMBERA and very appreciative. Retain historical knowledge of Persacola Gulf shore fort protection. The history of the United States. The movie life. Very important to our environment and our community. Historical value. Fort used in civil war. Another reminder that we ---- what it took to establish our nation. Celebrates life of veteran. It is a historical ---- and ---- the gulf coast. It is a protected beach.  That is a good thing! Beautiful beaches, white sand and the history of Perdido key! Beach and seashore turtles. Public land that is still relatively ""free"" to the public-protected animals/---- ----. To preserve and enjoy.  Very beautiful! Beauty and protection of animals. Excellent natural beaches!  Ft. ---- is great! I love Davis Bayou-relaxing an friendly staff. Part of American history. Seeing history. Maintain history-very important. Keeping away the enemy/protection of nature reserve. War time history, environmental significance. Great!! All history is significant.  It is great to be able to actually walk through some. To protect the coast during enemy attack. Accessibility to historic sites. Historical relevance. Access to Civil War era fort and natural Santa Rosa Island. Preserved history. Preserving the history of the nation. History! Our history is who we are today. Very significant to our history. It's age and the role it played in the ----. Great place with beach close and close to facilities."
242,Governors Island NM,GOIS,"I enjoyed visiting the Castles.  The National significance of this Park centers on its great waterways and as one of the first entry ways into this Nation.  It's in a place of importance because of the role it had in the American Revolution. I know it is the house of a ---- ---- ---- where several ---- were based in ---- 1960-1970's. Lindsey, tour guide for Fort (Castle ----) was very informative.  Enjoyed and would suggest tour. Municipal and military history. History. NY, US history. It is incredibly interesting. History of NYC. Protecting NYC. Great architecture on the building.  Love to see the first up and used. A good explanation of history. Yes.  Rangers were so helpful!! City history. Defended NYC financial center in war of 1812 and later. History! IDK I just got here, history. It means a lot to the development of NYC. Our history nation and NYC. The history of US ----. War history. It's historical value and military history is impressive and important. The ---- island ---- and long military history-full of pride and disgrace. History. Everything! Fort to protect NYC from 1811-1960s and a prisoner holder. Army history. Fort system. Posterity and preservation of history. History, defense and learn history of USA. Historical, military history. History. The beautiful history. Open to all, easily accessible via public ---- ----, friendly atmosphere, very ----. We had an amazing tour of the prison! Utmost significant. ----. Excellent history and wonderful green space right outside the city! Connects to the past what the United States has gone through in history. Originally this island was used for ---- Wright to fly his plane and during WWI the air force. This is highly significant.  It's a basic part of U.S. history. Military history and ---- ----. In my opinion, the security. Is that it's beauty and history for the kids and for a country. The history. ----. To preserve the beauty of history. Add the ----. New ----. Kasson was an excellent guide at the castle. What a wonderful ---- thank you! Yes. ---- of N.Y. harbor. Army ---- Coast Guard ---- relatives who lived in ---- back ----. Colonial history. Everything. It's significance is it's importance on our economy. It plays a major role and contributed a great deal to the founding and development of New York. The scenery, castle and history. Use as a fort and prison. To represent the security system of the nation in history. History. It's historical significance in protecting NY harbor. Thank you. It is cool.  Okay, fine, uh...it holds a symbolic value.  Also, it has some history.  I don't know! History. History. First round fort, protection. It was used to protect New York from British attacks and to house prisoners.  Very significant. My significance is very good.  History of governor island is excellent.  Monument military architectural history for all people to visit. To protect what is now one of the most important islands in the world. The history NY, military history.  More money should be allocated to this park.  It's location justifies it. History of the US. This park means the whole history of the country. Seeing the prison and the parks were nice to walk through."
243,Saint Paul's Church NHS,SAPA,"We would not be a nation without the events that are remembered when being there. It shows what times were like in the Revolutionary War. The Park is really good because we learned more things. The Park is very good because they care about the people that died there. In my ---- ---- important. My opinion is that the Park is there because it shows the history of the Revolutionary War, the colony. I think that ---- is important because it teaches us about the history there. There were enslaved people in New York. Teach history to our children. Vital role in our ---- ----. To teach about history and the revolutionary war. It was the battle site of the American revolution! It is important because ---- you about our parks ---- ---- the world and ---- they do. The history of the area in which we live comes to life when you ---- ----arts. It educates locals/tourists about ---- revolutionary war. Historical site. History about the church ----. It is important ---- long ago. Yes. It is a site to remember the Revolutionary War and the fight for freedom. Reminder of the war.  Educate students about history. I think the Park was very helpful; and I learned a lot about Colonial America.  The Park showed its significance well. It was good because it showed its significance well. To show artifacts. I think that the Park really is important to the Nation because it explains what it was like 250 years ago. Because it teaches people about history. It shows history and artifacts of history. The Park is important because it shows history. It was good because it shows significance good. It shows important artifacts of history. To show artifacts from 1800's. The park provides students/adults with important historical information about colonial times. That it tells you about how the Revolutionary War was and how every one was treated. I thick it significance is the historic of the Revolution War. I truly enjoyed visiting an actual place from Colonial times. The beginning of American-religious freedom. Provides an onsite look at the families who originated this town and a memory of their history. Historic importance of area and nation. History of our nation's beginning.  History of our nation's wars.  Historical significance of the dead in the cemetery. Its place as a reminder of the early religions.  Life in rural early America. Bringing of history to ---- 0000 in our neighborhood and awareness to something ----. Colonial church-it's uses, cemetery and museum.  Very educational and memorable. Very nice for students. A glimpse of colonial culture and a beautiful preservation of the church. Close for Westchester/NYC. History for families. St. Paul's is significant for Westchester County. Nice place to visit and close to Yonkers. Historical, revolutionary war hospital for British and German/Cemetery. My significance of this park is that it is very important to many families. The nation significance of this park is very important. The lady my school is named after."
244,Obed WSR,OBRI,"Natural resources and beauty. Shows what God has made. Giving my kids the opportunity to see how beautiful it is and getting them excited about being outside. Natural beauty, relevance to Oak Ridge. Preservation and recreational use of a wild river, climb with ranger program great intro to this. Wonderful to have it preserved for future generations. Helping protect the natural resources of the Cumberland Plateau-such an unique geological land mass and ecosystem. Rec. and nature activities of the ----. Natural waterway. To preserve a beautiful river area for kayaking, fishing and most of all future generations to enjoy. The Park protects the Obed River System, an ---- water way on the ---- ----. Wild river. One of the few free-running rivers in the Southeast.  A beautiful gorge with amazing bio diversity. Products a wild and scenic river that is easily accessible and provides recreation ---- for many low income people. Protects five river and bluffs for future generations. It is important to preserve wild areas for future generations to enjoy, such as this free flowing river and the land surrounding it. Preservation of sensitive River Systems. Bluffs, boulders, the views, wild life, the river, beautiful scenery! Preservation of a relatively pristeen scenic gorge and it's natural water courses. Provides out door recreation and learning for everyone. It preserves a rapidly disappearing natural environment for future generations to enjoy. Our beautiful and wild places should be preserved and protected for use by all Americans. Natural beauty. Preserve, interact nature, etc. Wild free flowing river and canyon ecosystem. A great place to enjoy remaining wilderness. The pristine beauty needs to be protected, it cannot be duplicated once gone, a treasure that has no price. Maintaining nature's beautify for future generations. Preservation of wilderness areas and wildlife.  Providing access so visitors have an opportunity to study, enjoy and learn about life's web. Protect waterway and provide recreational setting for enjoyment of natural habitat. It is preserving a clean and free flowing waterway-a rarity in US. Pristine example of an Appalation river system.  Captures America's rugged wilderness and expansion westward. ALL parks are gift we citizens give to ourselves.  I love them all. Access to Tennessee's Plateau region, highlighting it's ---- ---- ----, cliffs, scenic views. Preserving natural areas. Preserving history and beauty of our Country and land.  Appreciating the beauty of our State. Opportunity to experience nature. Preserve a beautiful natural resource that has great recreational opportunities. Mother nature is important to being a full/whole person, whom will be able to be a full/whole value to society. Great venue to appreciate and participate in natures wonders. It is an excellent example of natural East Tennessee beauty. Outdoors!  Wonderful. Preservation of scenic beauty and recreational activities. It's one of my favorite wild areas in the Country. Unique treasure in this part of the Country. The beauty of the river gorge is amazing. Excellent Whitewater paddling. Regional beauty. Preserving a scenic wild river while allowing the river and resources to be used. Outdoor rec.  Water, hike, scene. Yes!  The trails and river are an American treasure. Wild and wonderful. Beauty, nature. This Park is the best representation of wilderness on the Northern Cumberland ----.  It has amazing natural and cultural resources. In the Eastern U.S. this is one of the most beautiful rivers for White Water Kayaking. It has some of the ---- ---- wildlife ---- ---- in the Nation. Preservation of the plateau habitats. The river life and the natural beauty and quiet scenery.  Ability to give back to nature and enjoy what God has given to us. Beautiful.  Rangers extremely helpful. Hiking and boating. Wilderness preservation. It is a natural treasure-very ""true to form"" of what our country looked like when it was settled! A portion of wild and scenic  river in the SE USA. Preserving and making available to the public this natural setting to experience an area that took eons to create and provides for the preservation of it."
245,John Fitzgerald Kennedy NHS,JOFI,"Political history, Social and Financial history. To remember JFK and honor his and his family's memory. Important family in our history. It has great historical significance as the birth place of a very well known President of USA. This is a great way to learn about the Kennedy family.  Also, the Movie's Narrator has a great Boston accent. President's birthplace. One of the greatest Presidents of our time. One of our Presidents was born here. It provides an insight into our 35th President coming from very normal beginnings.  The simplicity is charming. It marks the day the world changed forever. Learn more about the Kennedy family and their childhood. The birth place of JFK as well as the staffing of the very famous and important Kennedy dynasty. The childhood house of JFK was well preserved.  An enjoyable visit. Providing historical context. Birthplace of JFK-one of our most dynamic Presidents. Historical, where one can relate to JFK's early years. Keeping the Kennedy's contributions to this country and the world alive.  Thank you. Political history. Very important to the United States of America. Home of a President. Great President, so important to learn more about JFK! Thank you. Very ---- a history student.  She was knowledgeable and enthusiastic.  I was lucky to have her for myself. Birthplace of very important man. This is the birthplace of a great president and a great American ---- when JFK lived here he was very young and didn't know what he would become.  This park shows that we can all aspire to greatness. Learning about the history and contributions of the Kennedy family. Recording, remembering history of an important figure in our nation. To preserve the family history of JFK and educate visitors about the beginnings of a presidents life. Great guide. JFK was one of our most transformation presidents. Important. To display ---- first lane. The birthplace of FAKE. JFK's home. This park illustrates the significance of home and family in shaping the citizens and future leaders of our country. Provides context on the early life that influenced our 35th President's policies and priorities. Very inspiring to see these relatively modest beginnings. A national ---- was ---- this family. Great significance. It was my long desire to visit the birth place of a late beloved President Kennedy. Today fulfilled. He had inspired me for nation's love. Gave us access to a small slice of history. Great history of one of our presidents. John Kennedy-my favorite president in my lifetime, I've been to Arlington 3 times and nice to see birth place. FAKE! Presidency set several presidents, first Catholic youngest. It is very fortunate to have the opportunity to get a glimpse of his childhood home. Birthplace and snapshot in time of the era in which FAKE was ---- having gone to the FAKE library, you see how dedicated to people and community service their family was. Being here, you learn how they became so dedicated. Insight into the first years of a highly significant President and his family with good supporting information from the ranger. It is important to preserve and make available old buildings that are or have historic value. Important to share history and time with people too young to know about. Great facility! Birthplace of an important president. Great info about JFK. Interesting to know about the birth place of our 35th President. Keeps history alive. Huge significance. History!! JFK birthplace. 0 The birth place of one of the great Presidents of our nation. Learning history. Yes, I enjoyed it a lot and will return again with my friends. Birthplace of JFK. JFK's childhood home. Brings to life my teaching of U.S. politics. Irrevocably tied to American and world history by having the availability of JFK's birthplace and history of childhood to the public. Invaluable insight into a historically important family. Very significant and inspiring. Birthplace of great President very historic. Great to hear about beloved President's childhood and history. To remember JFK and ---- ----. Shows that people from any beginning can become the President of the United States. Personal history of an American President. To learn more about an important U.S. family. Beginning of a President. Historic. It is of extreme historical significance showing a President's roots and beginnings. Learn more about a great man. Learning about the early life of an American President. The formative years of a great president. To learn about the history of our nation and the people that made our country great. Very significant.  It's great to see where it all started. History of JFK and his family. Very informative and enlightening. I was living when he was elected and was married that year.  My 3rd child was born 6 months before his death. It was where JFK grew up. The early history of the Kennedy family. Very interesting, keep history alive. Very special site, high quality historic house museum.  Our country needs places like this, as a time capsule as well as the political connection. Important time in US history. Excellent memorial to JFK. To teach the humble beginnings of a great president and to show how his family influenced his life. Birth place of a very good president. To remember our 35th president. A great president!  True visionary. Sarah was very knowledgeable about the Kennedy's history and their house.  I felt like I learned a great amount about or 35th president. History in my lifetime.  A life style similar to my growing up.  Although mine was much poorer. Inside look into the roots of a president and historically significant family. The story of Rose and the children JFK's childhood. The birthplace of JFK. Sheds light on origins of one of our presidents. Nostalgic and excellent way to show anyone can be president. Birthplace of a very popular president. Learning about the education and environment which enabled the Kennedy family and Jack in particular to give back a lot more than they were given. The birth place of JFK and probably the best known president in US history. The birth place of one of America's most recognizable presidents. Historic birth place of JFK. Continue the legacy of the Kennedy's today.  I think it's important that the park remembers their influence. Grew up with JFK memories. JFK birth place gives us a taste of history. Showing the childhood of JFK. Time capsule of early 1900's America. Educating successive generations about the life of an American of great historic importance to understand how his life was shaped. Great source of education and history. Being able to learn about the upbringing of JFK and what his early years were like. Excellent guide! Highly significant and inspirational. It helps to show the background and up bringing of JFK. To learn about the context, family and youth of an iconic American president. To see the birth place of one of our nations greatest leaders instills a great amount of inspiration and patriotism. Presidential history! Presidential history, great place to learn about the presidents upbringing and family values. To inform the public on the Kennedy's childhood, info that many may not have already known.  Very great! It is part of our history, especially a part of MA!! JFK. Show us the ---- and making of one of America's most famous president. This park demonstrates the humble origins of one of our nations presidents. About civil and political values how a President is born. JFK's birth place. Important to acknowledge where formative historical figures came from. Important to the nation. Birthplace of President. Glimpse into history. It is important to learn about our country's past to help us better understand the present and prepare for the future. My father, age 37, died the same day.  I was five.  This was like a trip home. The birth place of the president. Extremely important. This site supports historical memory of a former U.S. president. Crucial aspect of U.S. history. Let us memorialize John F. Kennedy. Site that displays JFK's beginnings. The history and story that happened here makes the park unique.  I do love the lovely grass in the center of the park. Because it's JFK's birthplace.  And JFK is the president of the United States.  Any people will be curious about him. JFK's effort to the nation. JFK's birthplace impressed me a lot because it provided a lot of stories and some history I never heard of for me. Huge!! Developing a sense of history as well as a culture of civic-mindedness. Part of American heritage. The origins of immense history. Birthplace of president.  Gives view of life at the time of his childhood. Historical and political, really edifying. Birthplace of JFK. J.F. Kennedy was an iconic president.  Good history lessons to be learned. Learned more about the Kennedys. JFK is still an important individual, not primarily because of what he did, but because of the inspiration he provided my generation and beyond. The birth home of a president. To learn how to raise a family. It is very good to learn about history and his life and family. JFK is an important character in United States history. JFK led the world to space and conflicts internationally.  He will be remembered always. Learning about JFK's early life. Lifestyle and customs of the 1910s. The birthplace of John F. Kennedy. Understanding the early life of a president. History for birth of a president. Insight into important period of American history intertwined with personal biography of the relevant actors. JFK is an important historical figure for USA.  Learning about his childhood is significant. The site is linked intimately with the Kennedy family and John F. Kennedy.  The Kennedy family is significant to American modern history. Birthplace of prominent president. Learning about JFK and the time period. Understanding early influence in the life of one of our best presidents. To get an understanding of JFK's background. Sarah was great. Power of place, local history-connecting the community with larger events. JFK was a very significant president and seeing his birthplace is a great way to understand more about who he was. Provides information about a fundamental piece of history of the country. Very significant-birthplace of one of the greatest presidents. Education about history of Kennedy family. JFK's boyhood home-very significant. JFK was such a pivotal figure in our modern history.  Because he died so young, so many people look up to him. To know the birth place of our great President. Very significant, important history. Kennedy family played an important role in our history and this house helps preserve that memory. Kennedy legacy. History of 35th President. Wonderful way to feel connected to, celebrate, and honor such an influential man. Birth place of John Kennedy-U.S. President. It captures life in the early 20th Century, while also showing the American Dream-that any one can rise to the Presidency. It is suitable to learn one of the famous Presidents. Good Tour to learn the history of the family. It is important to maintain the history of our place on earth.  This is a fine site. It is an historic look into the birth place of JFK. As JFK is one of the more interesting characters of American history, this is a terrific attraction.  Best of all-it's free!  As education should be. Birth place of JFK-see how Kennedy family grew up in early years. To the memory of a great promise not full filled. Shows the birth place of one of our greatest Presidents and takes you back to how one of the most famous families lived. Keep history alive for the 21st Century generation. Historical preservation. It's so well put together as well as explained to show the past, but prepared for now's time, an what the future may hold. JFK birth place. The home where JFK was born.  Important to see. Birthplace of a president-great. JFK history A++. Keep the memory ---- live. This park is the birthplace of the president Kennedy.  When visiting the park we will feel some places where Kennedy has ---- and get closer to the president. Historic landmark. Origin and lifestyle of a historic president. Birthplace of one of our nations greatest presidents. The tour was great and the guide even better!  (Josh) Thanks again! This brings the man, JFK, to life----- real for me-not just history. Learning about the times and history of one of our presidents at ---. Birthplace of JFK.  (President) Important. It represents the beginning of a president who led the nation during the Civil Rights Act. Very important history site. It's an important historical site as the birthplace and childhood home of one of US most famous president. Shows us something about the children of the Kennedy ----. History. Beautiful glimpse into the family life and early years of JFK.  So impressive to learn the influence of Rose in so many endeavors. Amazing historic site well preserved history. To be in touch with the history of our presidents. Deeper understanding of the lefe and activity of JFK. Wonderful new of the family's ----. It's interesting to see JFK's life as a boy and it humanizes him a bit more, which I think is important. The Kennedy family played a tremendous ---- in this ---- in this park un/learns about what ---- to this. Showcasing the young years of one of our presidents.  Historical look at life back in 1917. Honoring and appreciating American ----. Birth place of American hero, president. Extremely important. JFK's birthplace and where he spent his early years. Provides a glimpse of the early life of JFK, gives family background to an influential family. To teach history to the next generations in order to preserve the past. To understand the value and family played in his early life. History behind an important president. President. History of a great President. This home w/the docent amplification tells us not only about an important historical family but also about the time period (artifacts). Priceless, very important to maintain this place of history for the nation. Important to keep the information available to future generations. Learn about Kennedy family home life as context for their public service. It shows that though ---- for it, even JFK was a regular human. As the birthplace of a president, it is important to remember and preserve the legacy of our presidents and where they came from what accomplished. A tree gem of an American president's legacy. The birthplace of a president and an interesting look at the changing ---- of living here! Understanding of the maternal influence of JFK. Very significant due to being the birthplace and home of an important historical figure. The park provides context to John F. Kennedy's life, as well as the impact other members of his family had on the country. Very interesting. Birthplace of President Kennedy gives insight into his formative years. The birthplace of JFK and the Kennedy family. To commemorate and memorialize the birth place of a President. Good to see where our leaders grew up.  Help us relate to them. Jfk was a great figure to our country.  His birthplace should be a memorial! Shows how the family progressed from normal family life to politics. NPS is a great asset to this country! Very important for future generations to be exposed to the up bringing of great American Leaders. Great historical landmark!  Unexpected and delightful to find. The unique qualities of the president born here. When I was in 9th grade I worked for Kennedy's  election.  I've always wanted to visit ---- JFK begin. It is interesting to learn about the birth place of such a great President!  Also interesting to learn that Rose kept Medical records. Birth place of JFK, shows were he was born and how far he went! Birthplace of a president. Very significant.  Home to an important family is US history. Connects the history of the presidency with the common life and history of American citizens. The birthplace of a very amazing president. Remembering and ---- the origins of one of our country's most significant politician. The park continues to draw people from all over the world to such an inspiring and charismatic family.  We thoroughly enjoyed the experience today. The national significance of the house is high.  It provides us with insight into the life of JFK as he grew up and formed his opinions and identity. Birthplace of one of our presidents. Present presidential ---- gives insight to the ---- and values. Very informative thanks! Birthplace of very important president.  History of one of most important families in Boston, Massachusetts and U.S.. Preserve these precious gems."
246,Friendship Hill NHS,FRHI,"Understanding the importance of Gallatin. Treasurer. It was once the Frontier and it's surprising how our Secretary of State lived so humbly. Gallatin's home. It shows how our leaders both were connected: Gallatin, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, explorers Lewis and Clark.  Welcoming about that in history, but here is a ""real"" connection L and C naming a branch of the Missouri river after Gallatin.  These were red people. Part of history. That Albert Gallatin, an unsung founding father, bought this land and lived here.  The land, he though, had untapped potential, and it shows how far east our ""West"" was.  Cool! Outstanding, programs with A. Gallitin and Dolly Madison. Wonderful historical venues. To tell the story of Albert Gallation.  His home and his contributions to the early years to this country. It increases our appreciation of those who made our nation great. Home to a big name from turn of the 19th century. Friendship Hill is beautiful, and a place where I first learned about Albert Gallatin!  His life story and accomplishments were very interesting to me. We learned that Albert Gallatin was an important person to the nation's early beginnings in the late 1700s and early 1800s. Tells the story of our longest serving Secretary of Treasury home. Significant Albert Gallatin was an important figure. To show where and how a founding Father lived and his significance to the country. Very important. Historical learning about our country's beginnings. Historical building and politician. Historical. Friendship Hill is wonderful place.  It preserves the historical history of the area and the history of our country with the service of Mr. Gallatin. It provides a look into the life of a significant historical figure. Yes, it was fascinating to learn more about Gallatin and his contribution to our new Nation. House was under construction not a good photo opp, but other than that very informative. Albert Galletin's public life and service are well explained with focus on the house itself as I remember it from the early 1970's (private house) to now. It gives future generations a past to look back on to help make future decisions, history repeats itself in one way or another. U.S. Senator.  U.S. Representative.  Secretary of the Treasury. The Gallatin house and his contribution to the nation. National Road-public service and purchase of Louisiana-ambassador to France-Sec and treasury Thomas Jefferson. Albert Gallatin. Amazing. Very neat-history and how people lived long ago. Gallatia made significant contributions to diplomacy and government in the early republic.  His home helps explain the settlement of western PA. Love the historical information and presentation relating info from 1700's-relating to events in current affairs. Gallatin. The preservation of history and education. Albert Gallatin's contributions to our country. The importance of the national park. Learned about a forgotten founding father. Very important part of our nation's history. Brings forward the history of our early government. Love the history of this great man! Park helps explain some of our early history. Very historical. Albert Gallatin's life and WORK goes back to the third president, Jefferson's admin..  At a time in the past, that the United States was in its founding stage.  I'd say that's pretty nationally significant.... Its beauty and history. Our history should be preserved for future generations. Preservation of pre-industrial life associated with land use. Very beauty, well preserved, great ----, love it. Teaches the history of the area to those who were not previously aware. I learned about the early history of the banking industry, what kind of debates founding fathers had regarding system of banking/debt.. Albert Gallatin played a crucial role in developing the Office of the Treasury and he attempted to learn and respect Native American languages. Because it was Albert Gallatin's home.  It was wonderful. Shows the importance of Albert Gallatin. Connection to the Whiskey Rebellion people and Albert Gallatin's role and other accomplishments for the new country. To honor a founding father and to show how he lived and what he did for our country. Albert Gallatin provided a wonderful service to our country by decreasing the national debt during his time as Secretary of the Treasury, the park ---- highlight these accomplishments! Gattatin was much more important than I previously understood-enjoyed my visit. Insight to how Secretary of Treasury lived. It's the back to Gallatin's past and his part in history. Albert Gallatin played a significant role in our nations history. Albert Gallatin was sec of treasury for 13 years. Albert Gallitum is very overlooked in history. A tribute to a prolific statesman. Turn it's inter-connection with many industries and early American history.  The Gaalatin Estate at Friendship Hill provided a necessary look into the Birth of our Nation. Represents Western Expansion by a significant politician that is not well known. Albert Goldstein's contributions. This National Park is a wonderful gem off the beaten path.  Very nice! The significance is that a very important man in the creation of the Nation resided in area of Fayette County, PA. It's an important piece of property where a man who helped create the Nation resided for some time. To commemorate a significant figure to American history/Western PA history. Albert Gallatin was an important figure in early American history. Albert Gallatin's contributions to his adopted country. The life of Gallatin. Albert Gallatin. Honoring a very important, but sadly neglected statesman. Showcase important men in history of the area. Learning more about US history face to face instead of only Internet/texts/etc. Tell the life of ---- who is little known. Historical look at man and families life. Knowledge of Friendship Hill important. Very important to the beginning of our nation. Albert Gallatin's life. Historical aspect to the settling of the region, it's manufacturing opportunities, and Gallatin's service to America. Albert Gallatins Significance and importance to the growth and future of the United States. Beginning of a new nation. Education and ---- to historical preservation. Albert Gallatin playing an important part in our history. Yes. Albert Gallatin was amazing! Gallatin played many important roles in our country and in the area. Gallatin was a noted statesman. The beauty. Mr. Gallatin was an incredible man and we are so fortunate to have his home to learn about him. History to be learned locally.  Nice to be free. It provides great insight into the history of how Albert Gallatin was able to have a family and provide his services to our country. Learning about a lesser known yet highly influential member of congress and statesman. The significance to the locals.  History of an area needs to be preserved. Albert Gallatin importance to early US ---- and the local significance of that. Albert Gallatin's life and accomplishments. Home of Albert Gallatin, 1st treasure of the US.  Also, helped develop the 1st national road. It is the home of a significant historical figure from the colonial era, Albert Gallatin. The beauty and history. The beauty of it. Home to a founding father. Albert Gallatin-Secretary of Treasure, president of National Bank of New York. What all Albert Gallatin did for our country. A prominent figure in early American Politics lived here, the style of the building of the time is significant. Keeping history alive one house/property at a time. It ---- part of westward expansion. Background on ----. How immigrants contribute to our growth. Provided insight into the life of a less known politician-apparently very level headed views on public debt reduction and infrastructure improvement. At times rangers don't know the history-one has been here 28 or 29 years. Showed the important of ---- leader in for country and how it helped everyone. The importance of Gallatin's political contribution to our country. Shows significance of a man commented to his new country and reducing national debt. Been here all my life. Gallatin definitely was important to the beginning (post-Revolutionary War) of the U.S.. The life of one of the famous men that nobody ever heard of. The fact that it was ---- by the 4th ---- of the US. What Albert Gallatin did for our country. The national significance of the park is Albert Gallatin. Important part of history. Brought to light much lesser known events and people who helped found the nation. Hands on historical education. VIP never know of him. 2nd visit to park enjoyed. Gallatin-service to our nation and his sacrifice to himself in reference to his love of Friendship Hill. This park tells us about essentially one of the founding fathers of our country.  Gallatin had idea(s) about the construction of the National road, Federal banking system. Visited Gallatin and the Fort necessity areas this weekend.  Wonderful explanation of the causes of French Indian War. French and Indian war/Albert Gallatin times. How one man can impact a nation. It gives this area a MUCH needed resource and drawl.  Great for visiting family and friends! It is a historical monument that should always be ---- for future generations. That's it is a national land mark with local history for me of a great American figure. It is to show an insight into the life of the people that formed and lead this country in the early years. I never knew about Albert Galletin now I do and I'm better for it. Shows the history of our country and the men that formed it (did not, know the national hwy ran right past Friendship Hill. It tells the story of one of the founders of our country and had he contributed to building it. Honor and recognize ---- ---- ---- made to the USA. Education regarding the early years of our nation and a key player (about Gallatin) who is not well known and should be better known. Teach people about the contributions of A. Gallitan to our nation. A link to the past Albert Gallatin. I learned about someone very important to the history of my country and I was not taught about Albert Gallatin in school.  I learned a lot! Albert Gallitin was important to the US treasury and the American banking system. Park provided info regarding Albert Gallatin and his role in western Pennsylvania history, as well as U.S. Sec. of Treasury and developing a plan to finance Louisiana Purchase and Lewis and Clark expedition. Gallatin is important to American History and this House and ground exemplify a slice of Americana during that period. Our early colonial history, history of gov't. and the life style of our forefathers, also, the preserved land is a living exhibit of our beautiful land. Life and times of early American government officials. Hence of Albert Gallatin. Learning about Albert Gallitin and how life was in the 1700's and 1800's and how he helped acquire land for US (LA Purchase). Albert Gallatins history. To share the history of the area and our nation. To pay tribute and learn more about a pivotal character in American history. Keeping history of important person in early Am. history alive. Albert Gallatin. Interesting view of little known political figure. Amazing information about an individual overlooked! Life and contributions of Albert Gallitan. Gallatin represents our finest ideals. Historical value!! To keep our history alive. To share the history of our nation and area. Historical. Gallatin seems to have been an important, yet rather unknown, figure in American history-I'm glad I could learn about him. Albert Gallatin. Trip down history trail during and after Washington's lifetime. Dream of one of our greatest American leaders Arthur Gallatin. Gallatin founded with/institutions and practice, for our fielding nation. Wonderful example of history that is not taught in schools. Not only does this park recognize the significance of Albert Galatin's contributions to our nation, it also demonstrates the construction changes throughout our early history. Learning about the early politics, formation of our country. Great history. Name of A. Gallatin-a very important leader early in our country. Contributions to the early nation. Albert Gallatin. Nation's history-historical figure. Learning about Albert Gallatin and his influence on acquiring land for the U.S.. The importance of Albert Gallatin. This house and life of A.B. was instrumental in the founding and success of our USA. Albert Gallatin. Connected to everything during and after the founding of the country. Gallatin was an excellent Secretary of Treasury. A wonderful place to visit. Albert Gallatin was an important American. Large wild park with a lot of big trees. Longest serving treasurer and nationally important person. Provides insight into the character and home life of one of the nation's early statesmen. Our early history and understanding of how the USA began.  Excellent re-enactment and actors were so knowledgeable. To keep history alive. 1. The original owner played a key role in the early decades of the country.  2. The site was part of the VERY early movement. Albert Gallatin rocks. Founding fathers' history. Gallatin was an important figure in American history-but not well known.  This site helps increase awareness in regard to Gallatin. Historic sites should be preserved.  Those who cannot remember the past is a bad thing.  So keep up the good work. Local, living history on the frontier. Preservation of the home of an influential Secretary of Treasury, central to U.S. Revolutionary period. Early development of the country. This park really links together Williamsburg, Philadelphia and the frontier-it's amazing, the connections are incredible. To preserve the history of and to educate citizens about a key figure of the formative years of our country, and all his contributions. Albert Gallatin with his historical reference to Westward expansion. Of great historical significance. Life story of young American's work in U.S. government. Story of an early American's contribution to U.S. founding and early financial development. History of important leader of ---- Nation. Albert Gallatin is an important person in American history, and his home helps to inform people of his life."
247,Herbert Hoover NHS,HEHO,"To learn about an un-heralded President. Historic. All national parks are important to give a glimpse of our past! Park was in the birthplace of Pres. Herbert Hoover and included restored buildings significant to Hoover's early years, and exhibits. Formation of one of our leaders. Provides a great look into the life of Herbert Hoover and his contributions to our country. It shows the pursuit of happiness and opportunities in America. Memorialize Hoover, remember history. An important President saddled with the great depression and a ---- to show the character of the US. Birthplace of Hoover-important part of US history. History!  So important. To remember one of America's former presidents. Herbert Hoover was a very important human being towards humanitarian efforts around the world. We need to know our history.  This is the best place to experience and learn about the President Hoover administration and era. Herbert Hoover was a president and fewer know of all the other great thinks he did.  He needs to be recognized. Get to know Herbert Hoover and what life was like for him growing up.  The blacksmith exhibit was especially interesting and John was great.  (Blacksmith). It is a wonderful commeration to our 31st president, Herbert Hoover. Gives insight to an American president. A nice surprise-lots to see and do.  Wonderful facility and grounds. It helps us all learn about this magnificent president, Herbert Hoover, and his incredible life. History of our nation and story of man who influenced it as president.  Makes real what our parents have talked about. To learn more about presidents and their contribution to history. Not sure-not all President's get national parks established Depression Era Pres. It was way more than I expected.  The old village was very cool and informative.  Was only expecting a museum, Hoover High San Diego ----. To preserve the legacy of the 31st US President's early years of his life, his formative years which can inspire individuals. It tells about the life and presidency of Herbert Hoover-important for all Americans. Teaching about the truth of Herbert Hoover and how much he did for U.S.. I learned much about Hoover that I have shared his life story to others. Birth place of a President! Significant not only for life of Hoover but because of national/international situation and impact. Honoring Former President. Very significant. Birthplace of a president. Iowa's only president. H. H. formed his values here. History, culture and opportunity. Learning more about a former president and the history of that era.  Love the homes, roads and walkways. Herbert Hoover and he's awesome. To learn about Herbert Hoover and what an important person he was to our country. WWI history and what Herbert did for our nation. A memorial to Pres. Hoover and the story of his life.  (Which was very much done.) Remembering and recognizing the life of Herbert Hoover. The significance in preservation of the past and the ---- of an American President. It's worthwhile for U.S. history to learn about Hoover as a leader in other ways than his Presidency. Understanding any one can reach any heights including President here in America. It tells the story of Hoover as a man as well as, as a President. Historical info about President. Preservation of the history of our Nation. Realization of the ---- can dream from an orphan to the first American citizen. The history and contribution to our Country from a former President. Great learning opportunity. Herbert Hoover's message of humble beginnings to great things is impressive. High. Preservation of past and how it was to live in Iowa.  Inspiration of humble beginnings and ability to ---- ----. To tell the story of a great American.  He is an inspiration.  The history of the Great Depression is critical. Historical perspective of Herbert Hoover. Learn about history. That an orphan could become President. History of Herbert Hoover and his parents. President's birth place. We need more citizenship education like the Presidential Grounds. Historical information about a part president very informative. Historical-good. We all can make a difference. Learning how Hoover impacted the Nation, Internationals, and the National Parks. To honor our Iowan president. 31st Pres. and what he did for our nation. Highly significant; home of a president, tells the story of his early life and accomplishments gives good over view of presidency. The park provides a personal insight into our 31st president.  It shows who was and what shaped him into the man he became. Presidential history, proof of humble beginnings paying off. Very educational and fun!  My 7 and 8 year old loved it too! To show how a simple man with hard work and dedication to his faith will carry you through life. Beyond recognizing the significance of a man, is the preservation of small-town America during this time. Historical. Very interesting to learn about our thirty-first president. Loved learning more about President Hoover.  My goal was to help (our two grandsons (8 and 11)) learn more history.  They loved it and became Jr. Rangers. To inform the public of the generosity and knowledge of Herbert Hoover. The history and explanation of the Great Depression was interesting.  President Hoover got a bad rap. Preserving knowledge of our past and what our potential is. As a memorial to a U.S. president-and a learning opportunity. A lot of forgotten history-or history that was never taught. America is great! Passing on our heritage. Tells us about the 32nd president, not as well known as others. Very important because it's part of our nation's history. All presidential history is fascinating and inspiring.  This is no exception. Explains a lot about President Hoover. Marks the passage of the generations.  The belief that anyone can rise to the presidency .  A life of service deserves recognition. To honor Herbert Hoover and make visitors aware of his contributions to the U.S.. Able to learn about Herbert Hoover childhood and what that meant to him and US future. To remember the life of President Hoover. USFS and NPS sites to the system. Not enough people know about Hoover and what he did! To show H. Hoover's words, you can be born and raised in a two-room house and make it to be president. He was a great humanitarian and it was shown in the video. To keep the public informed about our history. Presidential history is always important to understanding the thought process of our leaders. Mr. Hoover was president, and it's good to have a place that reflects his upbringing. Our group of 4 family members knew little about ----, now we are educated.  What a great man. To learn about Herbert Hoover. Preserves the legacy of President Hoover. The value to environment and lifestyle of a U.S. president.  Also, it is important to the American character. This park provides wonderful information about a president who is often overlooked and shows many of his accomplishments such as UNICEF and Boys Clubs. To educate ---- American history of a U.S. president. To preserve part of our country's wonderful history and showing the pls. and opportunity to share and learn who Hoover was and his contributions. Presidential personal history. Learning more about Pres. Herbert Hoover and his life prior to becoming President.  What a great man! Explores the life of 31st ---- is often ---- Herbert Hoover 31st President seems pretty significant. Insight into life of Herbert Hoover. Historical and cultural significance-This and every president had a profound impact on the development of the nation. Historic presidential home, buildings and grave site. Hoover is a forgotten President remember only for ---- impression, all the good stuff is never mentioned. It tells the story of Herbert Hoover, what he did, and our nation's history at the period of time Hoover was president.  Also, the park preserves original artifacts and houses so people can learn more about him."
248,Great Sand Dunes NP,GRSA,"Very unique!  Unexpected and spectacular! All National Parks are essential to this Countries future! It is almost as cool as Michigan's Dunes. The ---- themselves make the park singularly unique.  Proud of the ---- as a local resident. Sand dunes at the base of 14,000' peaks; night skies; historical stories; wild flowers! It's beautiful! Unique land form combo of sand and mountains. The sand and water. There is no other place like it. Preservation of unique eco systems. Dunes surrounded by mountains is beautiful and unlike any where else. Big geology fan, loved learning about these things. Largest sand dune in the US. The beautiful nature. Only one with the significance. Sand dunes are way ---- and it's a lot of fun to run down really fast. Sand dunes and view. Everything, recreation, beauty and unique geologic features. Preserve highly exceptional area for future generations. Very well kept last time here a disaster 2002. How incredible the earth (mountains) were able to create such a unique sand dune. It provided a unique experience. I think this park is a wonderful way to bring people together and see and do things they normally wouldn't do. Isolated but beautiful, the geology of the area is unique.  This park is unlike any other and provides recreation. The dunes! ---- The dunes are like nothing else in America, and offer a unique pit stop an any trip. Obviously the dunes.  They are truly unique. That our nation and its people value our land, animals and nature in general. The fabulous sand dunes. The fact there is no place like it. Very unusual for the location. Sand approved and ---- ----? Preservation of the natural settings/beauties. Unique interface between desert sand, ---- and mountains. Aside from the incredible beauty ----.  Dunes represent a unique eco system that must be preserved. It's very unique and diverse. Unique and needs ----. Maintain beautiful landscape of the U.S.  Natural wonder. Wonderful geological find! Save the nature and beauty of the area from ----. Yes. Preservation of the environment, ecosystems, America's wilderness; it's a ---- playground-everyone is happy. What time does in transformation to other wonderful ---- sand dunes. Sand out of nowhere. Unique environment. Preservation of natural resources. History for future generations. It's beautiful and we all need beautiful and fun places to go. Natural history and the relevance of wilderness for happiness, family time and stress reduction. So happy this is a national park.  Preserved for all to see now and in generations to come! That everyone no matter what income level can see something amazing and maybe more importantly learn. Very unique eco system. Excellent.  Seeing such sand dunes created by nature is breath taking.  We visit as often as we can. The natural landmark is one-of-a-kind and can not be found any other place, and it should be preserved and valued as a National Treasure. It's unique geography. The Great Sand Dunes NP represents Colorado's ecological diversity.  I have never seen such vast expanses of sand any where else in the State, so it's truly a treasure. The unique Sand Dune formation; preservation of a beautiful and geologically important area of the Nation.  The ecology in the area is ---- ----. Interesting landscapes. Natural beauty-quite awesome! Sand dunes amongst the mountains, wildlife. Excellent! Unique and fragile topography and ---- area. The very large sand dunes.  Enjoyed walking on them.  At the beach-they is forbidden. Unique geological feature. Geological significance."
249,Minuteman Missile NHS,MIMI,"Superb. History. Preserve history. Preservation of our way of life. Culture, historical, ----. High. History of the ----.  Security of the nation. Historical. This is such an important part of our history and heritage. Those who know history won't repeat it. Very informative. None. War. Education-history. Many facts that I did not know. History. Historical value, educational, not to repeat/learn from history. Very significant ---- ----. History. Part of key national history. To keep citizens informed. To remember history. Protecting the U.S. from threat.  Educational and historical. National defense. It teaches people of the dangers of nuclear war. Awareness of ---- war. Educates our citizens ---- ----. Cold War. Military history. Important reminder of ---- Remember history. That you can learn about the Cold War. History to be shared. I remember to scared during the Cold War. Military history. Now what an amazing job our men and women do to keep ---- Past history, future plans. Very important. Yes. Very!  People forget what has happened. Indelible HISTORY. Cold War history. Educate people on war and the Cold War. Extremely significant to show our future generations the dedication to ensure our country's freedom and survival. To chronicle our history for future generations. Immense. Cold War history. Historical ----. Very important. This was FANTASTIC ----. Very important!  Keep getting better. Critical.  A reminder of ----.      . Very valuable. History of Cold War deference. Historical, geological. Highly significant-a critical period in our nation's history. Historical, safe country. History of the Cold War (artifact). Important to understand Cold War. Preserving the peace by deterring and making  younger people aware of the past. Yes. Cold War history, never forget about Wm. ---- and freedom is not free. Cold War. History. Irreplaceable.  Necessary. Made history real.  Glad to see ---- equipment and facility.  The visitor center had a great narrative. Understanding risks of nuclear war and how close we came to having one. US military ---- Very important from historical perspective. Very important to remember. We need to understand what it took to maintain freedom. Very History-important not ---- History must be remembered and knowledge applied! To learn about ---- It shows history of warfare. Yes-very interesting to even the youngest visitors. Represented deference in Cold War against the ----, last line of defense. It lets us know about the history of our nation.  It helps us know about the workings of our ----. Cold War history. Shows ---- Part of American history. Learning about the Cold War. Good history lesson. A reminder of how things can chg in the ---- Great historical significance. A great lesson in history. Brings a somber awareness of the seriousness of nuclear war preparedness and consequence as well as the judgment to use these weapons. Excellent look into history and significance of Cold War. Excellent.  Very informative. History. As a former technician I appreciate this parks representation of the ---- Historical. History of a nation. Important history. It's history. To learn about history of the Minute Man ---- when the missiles ---- Historical value. To see the value of past. Great putting history ---- to our present. To inform us of the nuclear time era. Cold war history so ---- and still ---- part of all ---- our ----. Cold war significant ----. History. Good info about US protection during Cold War. To tell the story of the cold war. ---- ---- . Invaluable! History. It was ---- ---- ----. This is important for us to remember. Historical reminder. History. To show the ---- ---- ----. Historical perspective and prevention of ---- history. Cold War. Nuclear park ranger. History to be ---- ---- not repeated. Remember as to how close we were to nuclear war. ----. Educational. It ---- the need of ----. This ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- cities. To educate public. To remember where we come from. Education of current generation about US past. I liked showing ----, ---- the things I used to ----. To remind us of the ---- ---- and its ---- ---- ---- ---- to not repeat it. Education, history. Very significant. Fine +++. Extreme ---- ---- to ---- parks like ---- recall the past. History. Incredible! Represents the history of cold war. Education of the history. Education. History of ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. History of nuclear program. Inform public regarding national ----. To be able to see and understand national security. Unique nature and military history. Very significant. To protect from bombs. Cold war, ---- ----. History! Our ---- music ----. Let ---- ---- ---- ----. Historical ---- to ensure we learn from ---- ----. How about ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. To address the ---- ---- program and it's historical context. Reminder of what could be. The historical significance is ----. To remind us of the past. To remind us of the significance and change there nuclear war race. ---- ---- ----. Pleased to ---- ---- ---- ----. Important to remember. High!  Good addition. Much needed contribution to our understanding of recent history. Nuclear war ---- ---- ----. To preserve for future generations. Historical story. History. Yes. Air force and ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. Historical ---- ---- ---- ----. It ---- inspired significance as the ---- was a big part of our history and shaped our current ----. Remembering and educating people about the cold war. Reminds us of the importance of a strong defense of the nation. To show people the importance of cold war and it's impact. Cold war defense. Never let it happen. ---- For us to learn more regarding the safety of our nation. Reminder of what could have happened so it won't happen. The defense of our country ---- ---- cold war. To remind us what is possible if we do not find a way to peace. To show people how bad nuclear war is. USA and ----. 0 Historical. History of cold war. Yes. To remind us of our ---- ---- Keep up the good ---- Preserving History of Cold War. This was awesome.  History. It teaches where ---- To show what those who protect our ---- had to go through.  How the ---- and the conditions they worked in. To understand the devastation of nuclear war would have on the US and how the US prepared for it. Cold War history ---- Very high. history and US knowledge ---- military history. Teaches ---- came after the major threat of nuclear ---- ---- Cold War ---- Cold War history is too often ---- Eye opening I am from the Cold War generation History Important historical landmark. Missile men. ---- National Defense. Understanding the horror of Nuc War. History. Deterrence ---- Very informative and important for the public from historic and preservation perspective!"
250,Statue of Liberty NM,STLI,"The Statue of Liberty. Cannot leave NYC without seeing the Lady. It is the entrance to U. S.. To mark independence. Freedom of choice. It doesn't care. Symbolism of America's acceptance and celebration of diversity and National unity. Freedom. Liberty Statue. Heritage and its history. American ---- history. The Liberty Lady is the symbol of freedom. Freedom, ----. It is a historical symbol of U.S.A.'s diversity and unity. The view from the top. Historic symbol of our Nation. Incredibly significant-this is one of the most iconic sites globally. Hope. Represents the beliefs of the National ---- it has created for the people. Freedom to all. Powerful and beautiful symbol of the United States. Learn about American history and how people gained freedom. A symbol of America's heritage based on ---- welcome to immigrants from around the world. Freedom for all. I am Australian.  I believe it symbolizes freedom and opportunity for Americans.  For foreigners it is a beautiful world-class icon and symbol  of America. Provides continued support of ---- of freedom. Liberty, freedom and acknowledgement of diversity of America. The only complaint-the ---- ---- acts to loud and you ---- hear the video.  Thank you ----. That Liberty is a symbol of statue of freedom for all. The symbol of Ms. America ----- ----. Symbol of freedom. Image of cultural history and importance of as well as freedom and friendship. Absolutely!  Yes-never met anyone who HASN'T heard of the statue of liberty or Ellis Island. To show the gift from France. Remember America is for immigrants be proud! The Statue of Liberty is a symbol to people of all nationalities of the spirit of the U.S. and its people. Recognition of millions of immigrants through Ellis Island. History, immigration, friendship with France. I agree with the above statement. Primarily historical significance."
251,Fort Sumter NM,FOSUa,"Its historic significance and its memorializes a pivotal event in time in the fate of our nation. First shot of the Civil War-absolutely has national significance! Yes!  Anything Civil War is interesting. Start of the Civil War. History. An important part of history.  Viewing ---- ---- was used during Civil War. Very significant. The start of the Civil War.  I think it is a wonderful site to see and remember those who were lost. Site of first battle of the Civil War. A huge part of our national history, and both symbolic and literal representation of tension over slavery and states' rights; issues still present in our society today. Nation's history. Reminds us how our ancestors fought for their beliefs at all costs. History, good or bad, needs to be told. It was where the Civil War began. Sad part of  history of us and remember the sad condition of slaves. It was the site of the start of the Civil War. To remember where and why Civil War began. Defense against invaders first shot of Civil War. History of the beginning of the Civil War. Start of reunion. The first battle of the American Civil War. The significance of this park is being the starting place of the U.S. Civil War. It showed that both sides were willing to lay down their lives for what they believed in.  The strength of our Nation. Historic value and educational. Importance to American history. Site of first shot of Civil War.  Strategic location of Civil War Battle. Part of Civil War.  Important throughout War as defense for Charleston.  Best known Civil War site besides Gettysburg. The ---- stage strong and me. Highly significant. National defense and reminder that our own citizens can disagree to the point of bearing arms. Civil War-first shot, first death. Start of Civil War. Those who forget history are domed to repeat it.  Lest we forget all soldiers of this Country, and must celebrate the men ---- who gave their lives. It's important because ---- ---- our Civil ----. History. Civil War/Charleston history. History significance as the opening of the Civil War. It's ---- ---- began ---- ---- first causality was. Remembrance that we ---- ---- to end slavery. Specifically, the beginning of the Civil War, also, generally the defense of S. Carolina. The beginning of Civil War. The beginning of the American Civil War. A reminder to all that divided we fall!  A Nation divided serves to diminish our resource, weaken our culture and promote more wars. Historical.  Very educational.  We are from California. The history. The importance of what flag flew over the fort. Unique.  A seminal moment in American history. This sport is very important to knowing the history of the Civil War.  The enthusiasm and passion of the rangers was great to hear. It is the site where the Civil War has initiated.  That ---- speaks for much in terms of importance. It is a part of our country's history. The U.S. has been through some very difficult times, but has stood the test. Harbor location, battles. Historical significance. Important U.S. history. History of Fort Sumter.  Great education for kids. Significant part of U.S. history.  (I am an overseas visitor.) Historical significance. It serves as a physical reminder of how far our nation has come and far we have to go for freedom. Terrific historical significance. Great. It shows how significant everyone's opinion is. Opening shots fired of Civil War. Ranger Sarah-excellent!  Loved her knowledge and historical discussion. Symbol of and importance during the Civil War. Utmost importance, ---- ---- this going. Start of the Civil War. The first shot of the Civil War. The symbolism of it's role it the start and end of the war between the states and the creation of a new unified national identity. Where the Civil War started. Military history. The Fort, being the site of the first shot of the Civil War, is a reminder of how fragile and precious our Nation's unity is. Historic relevance to Civil War history. Appreciation of Civil War History. Remember people that fought for our freedoms. Civil War relics and history. History. Preserve history and educate about the Civil War. Remembered history. Starting point of Civil War. Start of Civil War. Historical Civil War. It's role in American Civil War. Flag ceremony-unity of nation. Fort gives us a beginning for a discussion of Unity. Civil War history. Our history. Very educational about history. Where the Civil War started-should be remembered. Freedom. History of the USA and the remembrance of ----. History. Start of the Civil War. Start of the Civil War. That our family before us saved our life so we be free. Very great significance must be preserved. Taught much about Civil War I did not know. Where Civil War started. To protect and preserve our nations historic and natural landmarks. Important before ---- Start of Civil War. A great tribute to the forming of our nation. History cannot be changed and it is important that we know and remember the events good, bad or very that make us  what we are today.  Historical Historical/Civil War beginning. Very significant. Very much enjoyed the fort Sumpter tour. I love that we are preserving our history and passing it along to future generations. Historical education. Start of Civil War. Where Civil War Begun. It is an important part of American history and Understanding.  The first     hand look of the sights gives a greater appreciation. First shots fired in the Civil War, one of the most trying times in our nations history. For all generations to learn about our past. Defense of our country.  Freedom important, brings men on both sides ---- Fort Sumpter. The historical nature of the location. The beginning of the Civil War.  Very important in American history. History of Charleston, SC. It is a national treasure! Historic preservation. Seeing where the Civil War started, which shaped our country. Crucial to understanding the civil war ----, also the unifying national anthem. Fun to be where Civil War started. Keyfort in Civil War. This parks important because of its key part in the history of the Civil War. Civil War began here. History. Important Civil War Fort. The beginning of the Civil War. The start of the Civil War and the results of the war are significant for our country. Educate people in a way that schools don't. Start of Civil War. Very significant-history of the Civil War. This was a significant event in U.S. history, please maintain! Good insight into the Civil War. We need historical sites to remind us; what was; what it took to improve; and what should never happen again. Historical significance of Civil War. Great significance-this was the site of the start of the Civil War. An important political location during Confederate cession. Great history. Civil War-first shot. Effect of military decisions on civilization. Understanding more details of Civil War. A landmark of the original point of the most historically significant event in AMERICA. It signifies the division of our Country and its eventual union. Representing the division and then reunification of our Country."
252,Arches NP,ARCH,"Preservation and access to unique areas. God's natural beauty preserved for all to enjoy! That's deep.  It's an honor to be an American ---- gave this in my back yard ---- ----. Very; was thinking this should be a top 10 national bucket list location for everyone! Preserving beauty, unique landscape. The many arches and hikes to them are rear in the U.S..  Preserving them while still making it available for common folks to see and appreciate as well.  Promoting and preserving nature for present and future generations. The unique geology and scenery. A treasure from God!  A ---- in geology! Shown the beauty of our country.  I am in awe. Protecting the environment. I am a Canadian visitor so I don't know the significance. Preserving the amazing natural wonders. The pristine beauty of the rocks and trails kept that way for future generations. It represents the beauty of our Country and all that we have to share. Beauty, geology, history. The land and park are for the people of this great country and there to share with all people of other countries. Landscape (sail crust arches) and animals. It is a great example of our cultural history as well as our Earth's geological history. Gets people to use outdoors. It's uniquely beautiful, and offers exceptional opportunities to appreciate the results of powerful natural processes. Nature at work. Understanding how Arches all formed was eye opening. The landscape is unique. Beauty, vastness of landscapes, number and variety of Arches, bridges and windows.  Access to a variety of Arches for non hikers.  Back Country hiking! Geological education. It's **** dope. Arches and ----.  ---- ---- and new very hot. Maybe iron and copper quarries? The arches. To me the Arches and the width of the country are the most significant things. The best place to see natural arches. Natural beauty of the amazing arches and ability for citizens to hike among them. It shows the impossible geological structures of arches, spires, and ----. Rock formations. Edward Abbel worked here. Amazing natural beauty and natural formations. Guards our national heritage for generation's to come and own legal foreign visitor's. It's unique geography and geological importance. We hope and pray the park will be protected and maintained so that MANY FUTURE GENERATIONS may experience it's natural beauty. Beauty and natural ---- ----. Wonderful natural area.  Great for people, out door activity.  Great way to protect natural areas from much development. Geologic wonderland. Beauty-nature-history. I don't know to answer, but it is very very awesome park to visit. It has stand out beauty, incredibly unique geography/geology, fun climbing, excellent hiking, yet is still very accessible for others not quite as adventurous. Makes the opportunity to enjoy ""----"" possible for ----. The beauty of the landscape. 0 Peace and beauty. The historical geology of ---- ---- is exceptional and ---- we ----/reflect on the beauty of the union and the heroism of natives/exploring was ----. Very important. This park represents the fortitude and resilience of this United nation signifying our increasing quest to preserve and learn nature. It's significance formation of unique geological phenomena and explanation of how this came about.  Provides hands on, in person experience to kids and adults of their ----. National pride in the beauty of nature. It's Arches/sight seeing. Preservation natural history and geology. Preserving the national beauty of an area and educating the public on how this area developed to it's present condition. The Arches.  Preserving wilderness and nature.  Not over commercializing our beautiful land scapes. Natural formations unseen else where.  Quiet.  Darkness (stars).  Appreciation for wilderness areas. Delicate arch is amazing.  Unmistakable beauty and unique rock formation. We are avid travelers and have yet to come across anything like delicate arch. Amazing! Very nice. Natural Arches. Since this Park contains the largest number of natural arches in the world it is significant geologically and should be preserved for future generations. It's fairly unique (but I live in Sedona, AZ!) and its beauty should be preserved. The history of the land and Park, of course the Arches and rock formations. Nature preservation and education. Thank you for allowing us older folks inside the Park ----. Unique opportunity to see so many examples of this kind of geology. Any lands we can keep out of the hands of developers, speculators and other criminals is appreciated. The sculptural arches, the incredible effects of these and water on the earth's crust, provide a chilling reminder of how old this planet is and how important it is to conserve it! Knowledge, outdoor experiences, healthy and joyful vacation experience. The Park is a beautiful example of the services available to the public. People from this Nation and the world can come and enjoy the beauty that God has created. It's a beautiful place that helps remind us just awe-inspiring nature truly can be. Priceless. Unique geological features. Show cases truly unique geology. Beauty and educational study the grandeur of the arches was inspirational to my wife and I. Geologic wonders. The protection of an amazing landscape-forever.  I've loved this park for 40 years and although the crowds are now huge, it's still a special place. You are now to with ---- time favorite park.  It is breath taking. Geological.  Protecting and maintaining the marvelous formations and educating how they were for med. Enjoying the beauty on nature. The geological formations are 1 of a kind and need to be protected for all to enjoy for many generations. The rock formations in Arches are unlike any other in the world.  They draw visitors from every country.  They must remain public and open to all in perpetuity! Explaining rock formations and how they occurred. Unique geology, natural beauty. The preservation of our national parks is an enduring gift to all Americans.  They are a source of pride and wonder. It has great national significance and should be protected. We must keep all our parks.  They need to be protected. Saving nature's wonders from extinction. Protecting and promoting our Nation's geologic and cultural history for future generations. It will keep our national resources for my grandchildren and ---- and beyond.  I have been to all of the NP, NM, N. Forests. Natural beauty leave it untouched. Where else in the world can you see such wonders?  It was fantastic. Arches beautiful.  Some hard to get to see. Opportunity to see the beauty of our Nation to learn about the culture, environment, and living systems of the Region. To preserve the natural beauty of this great nation. The Arches are really significant. The Arches are unique and special.  A national treasure, lovely trails for enjoying the scenery and sights. There are some areas too big and good to be private.  Too spectacular to go unseen. The beautiful rock formations. ARCHES, ---- nature, protection of nature. The awesome beauty within our Country-USA. Of the highest significance because it is totally nature-made-not man-made.  A true wonder! The geology of unusual rock that resulted in Arches. The park's significance is to preserve the unique landscape and educate people about it's long history. The beauty I know America for lies on this land, as well as other NPS areas.  America is as beautiful as the land we cake for. Unique landscape, not replicated anywhere else on earth. Unique natural beauty, landscapes found no where else."
253,Ulysses S. Grant NHS,ULSG,"0 Preserve History. It is very significant to the history of our nation as a historical account of the life of one of our nation's presidents. Importance to the civil war period our time of decision over civil discourse with slavery as the main question. Yes.  Provided much detail of the Grant family. Wonderful overview of a U.S. President who we had not fully appreciated. Former President and Am. General. As a real representation of the real lives of people during the slave period in the U.S. Very important site to educate on the life of U.S. Grant as a general and President. President/General Grant was one of my ---- historical and contributes greatly to our country. Promotes Grant's roles in racial equality. Necessary. Shows the life of slaves/slave owners and the life of a former President.  History culture. Civil War history-not taught in schools. Education about important president. Excellent-so much knowledge about Grant's contribution. Honoring one of our greatest generals and Presidents. Presidential connection; slice of life during the opposition to slavery.  ---- feel of St. Louis county life. This is an under advertised gem. To inform people about the life of Grant and his family. Very good to hear about Pres. Grant and his principles. Very well done.  Renovation of U.S. Grant home '----'. Historical landmark. Introduction to early civil rights. It portrays Grant's role in freeing the slaves. Vital to understanding the life of an important American figure. It teaches about the life of a very important person in our heritage and history. Grant's gifts to the Nation, i.e. as a General and President. Inform public about Ulysses S. Grant and his contributions to Civil War and rights of Black Individuals. Preserves and tells the story of U.S. Grant.  He is a real person who lived here and was involved in his time.  Not just a name in a book. Grant's wife's home. General Grant's importance to the nation cannot be overstated.  A great park. Preserving history is of the utmost importance. Seeing where Grant lived is an important part of U.S. history. Grant, slavery, history. Former home of a great, general and President? It makes history REAL! Loved it. General Grant's home between military tours. Grant/Dent. History always has value.  When it is the story of a very ----. Insight into an important figure in our history. David Newmann he was an excellent Tour Guide!  He also interacted with all guests with great respect and professionalism. It was wonderful to see ---- life living in Illinois.  We learned many aspects of his life. History USA. Get to know more about President Ulysses's life and neighborhood. My interest in the history of this place. Very significant. It is wonderful they are preserving history! Grant, very well spoken ranger Nick. History. Former President.  Early belief in park system.  His view on slavery. Preservation of historical/social and great personal contributions to preservation of this nation. Highly significant. To show us how a president lived and his beliefs about political issues and the impact he made as a president. A great general of the Civil war and US president. Great significance. It represents a memorial to a former US president who played an often overlooked role in history. To honor Grant and his life/accomplishments. US Grant's home. Very. Appreciation of this critical period of history, and application into present. U.S. Grant was a leader-a general, commander, and president.  He lived at this site and had family ties to both sides in the war.  I learned a lot. US Grant. Learning more about the enigma that is Grant. It is an important part of history to learn about. Grant's story merits being preserved and showed. The park tells the story of Ulysses S. Grant during his time in the military and his views on our nation at the time. Historical background on a portion of a past president's life. Wonderful!  I learned so much.  I will come back. It's part of our history, great learning tool. The American history of our Presidents.  This was excellent and very informative.  Needs to be advertised more! Very much a positive in our national history. His belief that all men were and should be treated equal, and that this home is a snap shot into his life and life at that time. To honor Ulysses S. Grant. To remind people of our history.  Miss people don't know our nations history. It's important to learn our history, so we don't forget our past and we can learn from our success and failures.  Grant's philosophy hold a lot of importance in today's world. Keep up the great work! With Grant came the beginning of civil rights for all men and women of color. Reminding us of the huge sacrifices made for our civil rights. Information about an important figure in U.S. history. It is considered to be President Grant's family home. Historical information-feel both the old and young. Civil War history. The history behind it.  (Ulysses grant).  Loved the tour!  Great info. Grant's home. Knowing our past-helps us sustain our future. ---- It is important to maintain the history of one our most significant leaders of the country. Celebration of President Grant's life and work. Grant did a lot for the US and love this part of history. Historic. The history of Grant's life, especially how his life related to slavery and the civil was. To preserve our historic buildings. Learned a lot about U.S. Grant and his time period. Priceless. Grant is very important figure in our history. I appreciate the museum about his life. The hoses connection isn't strong but it's interesting. Very high. Development of grant/history of nation. To educate ---- It provides insight into the life of a person who would dramatically shape the country. Grant as president! Importance of Grant and his influence on American people. Great history learning experience. It's an integral part of who Grand was and how he was shaped and helped shape the nation. Learning the history of our founding fathers who helped mold our America. The connection with Lincoln's house, and Mt. Rushmore and other historical parks number one.  Understand America ever more. History for our young, home school groups. Important part of history! Great history lesson! Learning more about U.S. Grant. To see where Ulysses S. Grant lived, met his wife and his services to our nation and his becoming president.  He was a smart leader! Grant's humane views on race and civil rights are vitally important to today's national debate. Very good. History. Presidency. Importance of learning multiple sides/aspects of lives of Presidents. Different view of U.S. Presidents life-teach about history and diversity of our Nation. Education on President Grant.  Thank you. Historical. Insight into U.S. Grant's life. U.S. Grant's history. Jeny well done. Interprets the personal and cultural history of the area and the Grant family. To teach about our civil war general and later President, to inspire people to continue living the values of equality and happiness for all. Historical: always important. Good for the young people to see how hard kids had to work. Learning more about President Grant. 0 Bringing light to what happened in a social setting regarding slavery during the Civil War. ---- between Dent and Grant. Gives the public insight into the ---- like of an American President. Preserves the ---- of a president. This park is an excellent way to show us much about this president. Very significant history that is not well known. To share some of U.S. Grand's life. Yes. History, but the video has gone a lot politically correct from the video shown years ago. Keeping the house a ware hero and president lived in and available for future generations is important. To help ensure that future generations understand our history. To see history of general and president. Important stage in Ulysses' life setting up his presidency and him being the top U.S. general. Very significant.  I knew nothing of Grant before visiting this NHS.  I enjoyed myself very much. As a native St. Louisian, I enjoy the historical tie the U.S. Grant NHS establishes between my city and the larger historical sweep of the country. Excellent telling of the people of U.S. Grant in history. This is a wonderful view of a little known president and his times.  Very informative. To learn about Grant's life prior to and after the Civil War. To learn about Grant. Yes. A genuine piece of St. Louis history that has influenced generations. Huge significance, especially in wake of civil rights unrest this year. Part of Civil War time and past president's life. To preserve history and life of U.S. president U.S. Grant. To make sure we appreciate and understand U.S. Grant's contributions to our country. Grant's contribution both as general and President.  His INTENT as President! The national significance is learning about the history of this great president and how life was. Home of 18th President. Interesting format to learn about the important time in history! A great President was here. HUGE benefit-humanizes Grant and gives perspective. The present is because of our history.  Great information. Grant's life while in MO and his contributions while in the presidency. History of one of our great Generals and President. To  honor Ulysses S. Grant and his role in our nation's history and his greatness as a general and president and his fight for freedom for ALL people. Understanding the significance of U.S. Grant in Mexican War, Civil War and as president. To learn more about US Grant, his life and legacy. Enjoyed the Grant farm tour."
254,Yukon-Charley Rivers NPres,YUCH,"Slaven's Roadhouse is wonderful.  It's amazing having a facility that's beautiful, historic and free to use. Preserving the ---- history. The beautiful landscape, and the preserved snapshot of American gold mining history. To give people an opportunity to learn more about the history of Coal Creek and nature. Preserving the land and wildlife with as little change/destruction as possible. The wild nature with its free living animals and wilderness plants and flowers. Keeping Alaska gold ere history alive as well as a glimpse into sustenance lifestyle. Allows us to experience wilderness and the history of the Yukon River area. This park serves as a preservation of both natural and cultural history that would otherwise be inaccessible or completely lost. Mining history.  Traditional culture and history. Preserves a vital site of mining history and provides great group meeting place! Excellent opportunity to preserve and protect a wonderful natural resource for others to enjoy. The background nature that surrounds the area. Historic value of gold rush era.  Vastness of wilderness and river experience. Keeping a special part of Alaska how it should be. Nature conservation, an opportunity to enjoy the outdoors, easy access to the river. Preservation of important part of Alaska's history and culture. Preserving the local history and the wildlife within the ---- so that this experience may be shared with our future generations. Educational-gold mining, historical, nice ---- from river and lodging Correction ""preserve"" not ""park"".  It was created to preserve substinence, history, natural history, wildlife and geologic history. It is significant for it's historical value and for it's natural beauty! Historical preservation of the mining district. The park is very important in a historical view. The history of the area of the Yukon river. Gold mining history and how it was the 3rd largest area/town in the time of the gold rush era. The dredge is absolutely great. It's remoteness, natural beauty, history, river travel for canoe. Awesome. The gold rush history here is important. Historic and natural value of a region with invaluable richness. The cabin itself it was made long ago and is still in good shape. Park ""date"". Gold ---- Yukon great. Gold mining and beautiful scenery.  An open are museum. Historical and history of the Gold rush. History of Gold mining.  Commercial development of the interior. Preserve the mining and natural history of the area. The gold mining history is very important to how Alaska's cities were formed."
255,Andersonville NHS,ANDE,"Interesting Civil War site but even more important-educating about POWs in general. Shows us the hardship of the civil war prison camps. To honor these who fought for our freedoms to teach upcoming generations war is not the ----, to respect, and treat all humans equally. Massise civil war prison.  Sad story sad time POW museum. POW. POW museum is significant to our nation because it pays tribute to those who fought for our country and freedoms. Very significant because it told of the ---- of war.  How prisoners of war were very mistreated before the Geneva convention. POW-great. Civil war. Extremely important-everyone should see it!  Especially the Donald. Interpreting the history of Andersonville prison; honoring American POWs. To remind us of the brutality of war.  Peace is to be sought.  Appreciate the sacrifice people have made so we can enjoy our freedoms. History...so it doesn't repeat itself. To not forget or repeat the terrible tragedy that occurred here.  Places like this must be remembered and taught to our citizens and future generations. History of civil war. Teaches us our history, which we should learn from. History as to how brutal the civil war was! History of the war between N and S great history in this facility, more than I realized. To always remember what sacrifices others make for our freedom, both past and present. POW museum. Very significant and in need of continued preservation along with other Civil War sites. The impact on my idea of POWs. Immense! To show the sacrifice so many made that we can have freedom! (Husband) price paid by American service men and women, (fifteen year-old son) for equality and to maintain freedom.  (Thirteen year-old son) no way we could give service like these men.  Educate and remember. Don't repeat history. Historical preservation. Learn from our history! Learning about history. To remember those who sacrificed and to hopefully learn from our mistakes. To educate and remind us all. American history. Remember what the Civil War was about. Remembrance and honoring our past. Sacrifice made to preserve country. To learn about and to respect the past for passing on to the future. To view first-hand the results of waging war.  Actual pictures excellent! To honor all POWs from all wars!  Very impressive! Recognize POWS and record history of POW camps, conditions and POW's. Nations history, history of South and GA in particular. Darker side of Civil War history, not just active battlefields. The reality of war. We should not forget. National ---- museum and ---- That we never forget the ---- of war, and be ---- humane to our enemies. To honor those who served and were captured in service to their country. So that we never forget what happened here! To help all of us realize the time piece of one ---- not just currently but throughout our history. To remember those who have gone before us. Remember the suffering of those who made USA great. We must remember our history/past. It is part of our history and should be preserved. The Civil War prisoner of war camp. Great history. To give evidence of the stupidity of war. Cruelty is always ---- in man's make-up! Awareness. Great educational facility. Memory of war vets and prisoners-beautiful. Park captures historically the significance of P.C.W.'s. So many lives lost and the suffering many went through there. The deduction to those soldiers who have served our nation. Historic and cultural ---- Historical remembrance. Incredible memorial to those powers who sacrificed their lives or freedom to give us ours. Pow. Remembrance of prisoners of war and a reminder of the horrors normal men can be easily led to commit. Very important. Very valuable. Never forget! It reminds us of period in American history that could destroyed our nation and honors the ----. A tribute to all who served our Country.  Future generations will  learn the Horrors and Triumphs past Service Men and Women endured to be free. The saddest and most ---- place I have ever been to and to think of how many fought is saddest of all. The preservance of history is a awesome experience to our nation and culture. Historically significant to the history of the Civil War and to parks in general.  I for one was unaware of the ---- in the Civil War. Remembering all those who were incarcerated here and who gave their lives for their cause. Most significant ---- camp in south.  Very significant historic site critical to understand a ---- occurrence in our history. Exceptional value in preserving history-the good and the bad.  Have to see it, can't believe they thought that stream idea would work! Reflection on history. Excellent preservation of our nation's history on a sad subject. It taught me a lot about POWs that I did not know. Highly significant, this is sacred ground. P.O.W. museum and cemetery grounds are humbling and show the evils of war and the harrowing price many paid. Monument to men who lost their lives there. So that younger generations can learn about the struggles of the POW's. War is awful. Very significant. We were very surprised at the excellent of this entire park. We truly believe that it is so very important for people to understand what our ancestors went through for our freedom! Heartbreaking stories that need to be told so that future generations learn from past experiences. Historical value-education, remembrance, honors POW's and veterans. To respect the soldiers and freedoms they fought for. History of POWs and specifically Civil War. Serves as a reminder of the high cost of war. It helps us learn and remember the high cost of war, and the plight of POWs.  It is also a peaceful place to think and reflect.  We are able to pay respect to all our war heroes. Great to preserve the history of our nation!  POW museum was very touching and informative.  Great to honor those who were POW's. Reverence for prisoners of war. It was eye opening.  I wasn't really aware of what occurred at Andersonville.  I falsely assumed they were treated well as prisoners."
256,Petersburg NB,PETE,"Civil War history. Civil War history. Excellent national park.  Very helpful rangers-helped us join tour already in progress. History and culture. That we never, ever forget the history of our past.  Those that forget the history are bound to repeat it!  Santa Ana. Petersburg Battlefield was the major siege that eventually decided Civil War.  Five Forks was the battle that broke the siege! Expanded knowledge of park and the role in the war; significant part of American history. Keep history alive!  This land is precious! Key battlefield in the twilight of the Civil War. The sacrifices made to make U.S. a nation over a collection of states. To learn about our history.  Loved it. Turning point. Five Forks battle:  significance to siege of Petersburg. It is very close to the end of war. National significance is invaluable to our freedom, civil war, price of lives given/injured/fought is price. Its national significance is inextricably linked to the War Between the States. This histories site interprets the longest siege in American Civil War, it has ---- great volunteer ---- in the field. So we won't forget. Preservation and education of a very sad time in our history.  Very good experience for my 11 yr old grandson. Medium high.  Great example of trench warfare.  Really like the example trench ----. The battle field and the heart of Richmond. National remembrance, freedom is never easy. It helped me to understand the impact of the battle and personal history/national impact. Needs to be upgraded and cleaned.  Please put more money into upgrading park. Yes.  Great research! Educate park visitors about the range of Petersburg. Very significant! Conf. history. Learning the important battles of Civil War, especially since this was longest siege and one of the last, major, determining battles. Part of our heritage. Neat paths and cool crater. Wonderful historical site very important in US history. To understand the struggle of the closing months of the civil war. Because it ultimately led to the surrender at ----. Deeper appreciation/understanding of specific events and persons involved during the civil war. The history of the American Civil War is very important. Preserve and education present and future generations about the Civil War and its consequences."
257,George Washington Birthplace NM,GEWA,"Shows the influences and environment of George Washington's formative years that developed one of our country's greatest leaders. Birthplace of one our great leaders-a very humble beginning produced greatness. Extremely significant. Birth place of our first President. George Washington's birth place. Shows Washington's roots and how he acquired his values. Sticky to the history. The significance is ---- of our first President of our great USA. The birthplace of our first president and the representation of the beginning of America. Very significant-birthplace of GW! This park helped me understand she way of life of our founding fathers/1st amendment. To learn all about the history of where George Washington was born. Also, we love the farm animals. To show what life was like when George Washington, our Founding Father, was a child. Gives a real feel for the place that birthed the man who was the first leader of our country. Where founding father George Washington was born and spent first several years of his life. It provided information and insight into the early life of George Washington, whose life had a significant impact on our country's founding. This is the plantation where Washington was born, and his early years have a major impact on his life. George Washington was born there. The birth place of George Washington. Washington is a very important person concerning our independence and as our first president. Birth place of our first President.  American pride founding father. History- ---- ---- of George Washington ----. History. Important historical significance. Thank you. Birth place of principle founding father. It is the birth place of George Washington. 1st President born here, pretty darned significant. First president, wonderful information about early days of country. This park represents the birth place of George Washington.  As such, the park preserves the way of life that led to the beliefs and actions taken by Washington later. G. Washington origin. The birth place of our greatest president. Birth place of our first president. Important history, beautiful location. Preserve the history of this country. An opportunity to explore and understand the early life of the father of our country. GW birth place, shows colonial life, brings history to life. The beginning, ---- for an ----. High-wonderful sight over the grands, would like to see the kitchen and blacksmith shop working. Historic treasure. This park is too well kept secret.  Wished that it was more recognized.  Our people are missing out to be able to see the beauty here. Historical beginnings of our country, far from what it is future. Most important. 1st President. Birth place of George to explain where we came from to his rise as General to President. Birth place of one of our founding fathers, link to the past. Extremely significant. Historical. History!  Where we've been where we are going! History. Learn about our 1st president. Life and times of George Washington and his family. Protecting our heritage. The birth place of the ---- of our ----. George Washington is most important for remembrance of the earth of this nation. A wonderful look and feel of an important part of our history! Birth place of our first president! Extremely important. Great to be able to learn about one of the most influential men in US history. How things were back then brought back lots of memories. Our first president and father of our country was born here.  History is important. This is invaluable in preserving our history. To educate and show the younger generation about colonial life! To learn about the George Washington's birth place and to see the beauty in the scenery and surroundings. US history, opportunity to learn more about our history. Very good. Early life of GW. Protecting our heritage. It very good to know all the history about our forefathers and families as we can. Birthplace of George Washington. I appreciated the insights into the daily life and family relationships shared with us by Ranger Bill. We learned that the Northern neck was the hub of Virginian commerce and culture in the colonial era, a surprise."
258,Biscayne NP,BISC,"That it is a Marina and terrestrial eco system. Preserving the Bay. It would have been Hilton Head if Gov. had not stepped in.  Keep it forever. Don't know anything about the park.  It was my first time. Unique eco system. Fauna and flora. Contributes to preserve the marine ecosystem, excellent place for boating. Love that it is not commercial reef.  Left in natural state and truly an educational adventure, love the ----. Quality of water, producing food fish etc, variety, coral reefs. To ----  by the people and for the people. Preserving a unique template/tropical ---- water area for future preservation and to protect the unique wildlife habitat found throughout Southern FL. Protect a unique area. I don't know.  No answer. Beautiful waters and wildlife. Great to get away from city. Being able to go off shore island in ---- and learned it's history very special harbor. Shore and marine life in the area. Mostly water, marine life, history. Water and mangroves so important. Very educational!!  Beautiful scenery. To persuade people to like nature. Preservation of marine ---- and surrounding vicinity. Very disappointed in this park in comparison to 50 other NPS parks we've been to.  Rangers not available, no boat excursions during week. Preserving a natural ecosystem from development and destruction. Beautiful unique. Beauty. Conservation. It is vital for our environment and to lesson human impact. The preservation of a unique eco system for educational purposes, personal enrichment and ecological services above all. Beauty. To preserve one of the oldest islands off the coast of South Florida and maintain it's historical significance. One of a kind. Share Florida coastal beauty. Protecting the ecosystem and reefs and wildlife that go with them to maintain something beautiful that should not be touched."
259,Johnstown Flood NMem,JOFL,"The Johnstown Flood's origin needs to be preserved and remembered as a cautionary tale about the power of nature. Very significant.  It was a manmade tragedy and needs to be remembered and taught about. Perseverance/community. Reflect on today's airport bombing and lose of life not prepared for situation. How folks ---- and deal with disaster. To ---- Johnstown ---- Outstanding memorial and ---- center for ---- 0 Significant event. Yes, I think this park highlights a little known historical event that had ---- learning value for the ----. Part of our history in PA and visiting our American parks. Human effects!  (""Acts of God."")  Highlighting our contributions to disaster occurrence. Understanding need to provide vigilance when dealing with nature and natural resources. Wealthy people who didn't care about the small guy. Historical.  The movie was well done.  Exhibits well designed-covered a wide range. Learning and preserving history of our great country. It's part of history.  Shows how regulations for building dams were needed back then. Historical significance. Learning from history/mistakes. That disasters happen to all, and we need to learn from each to pass on and improve for others to live. The most devastating flood in American history to that date. It tells a very important story in a very informative way. It shows the downfall and death of civilization and lives.  Many towns were completely wiped out. History Buff-Park is significant in PA history and environmental history. It commemorates the Johnstown Flood. The lesson of Johnstown need to be understood. Very significance. It is very significant to realize the lives lost and the ignorance/apathy of those in power at the time. Memorial. The amount of deaths. The impact it had on a small community. To understand history and how people lived and died. The Johnstown Flood was a huge event in our history. Information about how the devastation of a flood can cause. This Park provides a look into one of the most devastating semi-natural disasters in the USA. Learning about human mistakes, giving too much privilege to people with money and lack of responsibility/accountability towards disasters. Site of one of biggest losses of civilian life. We need to remember to take care of our infrastructure. The great loss of life over an unmaintained dam that broke and flooded the valley. Valley Flood from a dam that broke and killed 2209 people without warning. A warning about the importance of careful land stewardship and of the dangers of damming. Showing the demonstration the Johnstown Flood caused and how they recovered. This Park shows how a City and towns can recover after a devastating blow. It memorializes the victims of one of the worst tragedies in U.S. history. This park serves as a reminder of the shear power of nature and humanity's imperfect ability to harness it. To make information available concerning the 1889 Flood in Johnstown. Learn from PAST mistakes and put others first rather than selfish gain. To preserve the story of the Johnstown Flood and to remember those who died as a result. Reminder of how we impact nature. It's the worst national disaster of the 19th century, affecting a booming community of that time. Historical happening-we should remember! Big disaster in American History. The Park educates the public on the Johnstown Flood, the devastation caused by the flood and the recovery. Sobering reminder of nature's power and human frailty, also our ability to come together in the face of tragedy. Remembrance of the Great Johnstown Flood of 1889. How world including nation, assisted with recovery efforts.  How wealthy persons risked common folks with day issues. As our country grew, people endured hardship yet moved on.  This was one of those times.  We learn to live another day. The history of the 1889 Flood and it's relevance to our area. To learn from past mistakes. Johnstown Flood, 1889. One of the largest disasters in U.S. history, this park demonstrates the role people played in the destruction AND the reconstruction. It reinforces the backbone of local people who survived the 1889 flood, lest we never forget. Great loss of life when dam broke.  Dam should have been better built and maintained. The history of the Johnstown flood. A terrible event that could have been avoided had the dam been built better. 1889 Johnstown flood. The history of the 1889 flood. The nat'l significance of this park is the dam and it's relation to the 1889 flood. Flood History. I live locally and never visited this park-first time and it was really great!  Thanks!  Park Ranger Sheila was very nice and helpful! I enjoyed the park and all that goes with it and especially the movie. It is a piece of history that should never be forgotten. To teach the history of the region and hopefully teach people to be good stewards of the land to prevent potential tragedies. A great preventable disaster occurred.  Great loss of life.  How this happened is explained. Great depiction of the birth of city and industry.  Lesson ensuring safety of citizens regardless of status or income. This park gave my family a history lesson of a little known event.  We learned about a tragic event and remember the victims. To share the views of how it happened, what happened and the outcome of the devastation, great job. Great for all ---- visit. A great tragedy occurred here and we need to remember how and why it occurred. A reminder of the importance of respecting nature and a remembrance of people working together to help others. Yes, there is a lot of history here. Amazed at what it was like before and after that day. To memorialize an important event.  However on one of the information signs it states that everyone helped with the clean up, even the African Americans.  These statements are not necessary and perpetuate bad feelings. The park is excellent and the rangers were extremely helpful. To show how a poorly constructed dam cost hundreds of casualties in this disaster. ---- How great the USA is for us who live in this great country. Memorialize a tragic disaster. It's significance is that an historic number of our people perished in the flood. It's important to learn about Us's largest inland flood and how people's actions influenced the disaster. Historical disaster. Structurally insufficient dam for volume of water.  ---- in flood-prone location. It tells the story of how Victorian era industrialists exploited nature for their own enjoyment. How money and ---- shaped this area. History. 1889 ----.  As a resident in the ---- area we have been to the park many times and each time it is very informative. During the flood disaster, the entire nation sent assistance. Jonathan Rager did an outstanding job assisting me.  Very professional.  Kind and courteous.  Represents the park service well! A cautionary tale and to keep alive the memories of those perished. To recognize a natural disaster, just a terrible tragedy. Teaches historical lessons. Lessons to be learned from corporate greed and ability of human spirit to overcome tragedy. The ranger we talk with was very helpful. This park shows our nations ---- and how people helped one another after ---- tragedy. To commemorate and remember a devastating act of nature and of man as well as our resilience as a people. Shows the need to have regulations and inspection and enforcement of those regulations. History brought to life is important to our citizens.  The van tour my family attended and the movie at the visitors center made an impact."
260,Shiloh NMP,SHIL,"Civil War history. Exhibits the last Americans paid to preserve union. Rich in our nations history. Major battlefield for the war. Keeping history alive.  Much of what is learned here is no longer taught in schools. Shows history of Civil War. Learn from the struggle of our predecessors. History. Preserving an important part of U.S. history. Very easy to learn about history. Reminds us of the sacrifice that occurred during the Civil War. Create awareness and provide an accurate description of the history of Corinth and area. Highly significant as a natural landmark. U.S. history and providence of God. Civil war history. Very very important to preserve. Historic. Very significant for the history of our country. History and remembering this ---- event. History lessons. To show people how and why history and Corinth are important. Shows the hardships America went through. Extremely significant to our nation. Very important events in our history.  We need to know and understand our history.  The good and the bad. Preserving history. Civil war importance. Very important. Very important. Very important. Fantastic historical exhibit, essential. Important history. It's an important memory of when our nation was divided. Question the rationaling of ---- and how it affects our people. Remember history so we don't repeat it. Keeping memory of civil war. To preserve what happened here. Yes. History and real insight into civil war. Historical value. It is significant as the ground upon which so many died and marks an important place in history.  Shiloh ---- is a sacred place. The park ---- played ---- the civil war. Disruption of CSA transit west. Passing heritage. Extremely important. Historical value. History remembering the past so not to repeat in the future. Preserving history and culture. A warning of mistakes made and reminder not to repeat them. Civil war education. Helps me understand where I (we, ----) come from. Historic civil war battle. History, education, prevent war from happening again. Important information of the Battle of Shiloh and Corinth's position the civil war. The civil war history. To keep our children aware of the civil war and not to repeat our mistakes. Learning significance of the Battle and surrounding areas. Not to repeat; stay United. Civil War Battlefield that is not well understood. Preserving history of a difficult age. To commemorate the great loss of live in both armies and the Civil War itself.  It's our history. To teach Americans the sacrifice our soldiers paid for freedom. War. Preserves the history of what makes us the nation we are. To remember Southern heritage and so a good reminder of history. Very important to remember our history. The site is a location where many brave men of our past (both sides) died for what they believed.  It is an important point in what we are today as a nation. Learn about Civil War. Extremely important part of our history. History. History. Timothy Arnold was amazing.  He was made for this job!  Huge asset to the park. Much. Being able to use American history in person. Brother against brother-not good. Preserve this nation's history and significant memorial to people lost in the battle. Remarkable at saving our history! The park was a great way to experience the strategic importance of ---- and the personal sides of all impacted people. All of it. As a teacher, it is a valuable resource. Battle and victory. Civil War history awareness. For future generations to learn. Great movie. Invaluable information for everyone. It was an incredible sacrifice by all Americans fighting and one that must be understood and taught. Preserve history Americans. Should have been the end.  But was only the beginning. The battle here was a very significant part of our history and could have potentially altered the outcome of the war. The park represents Corinth and how it was a pivotal location whose evens determined the fate of the war. To inform the public on what happens when you take up arms against your brother. Very educational. Very good. Very important. Very important. You must know what people have given us so we remember our fate. Capturing a piece of history. To commemorate an important part of American history. Civil War knowledge. Civil war. Hallowed ground, history, I love it all. Lovely park with sad past. To preserve all historical aspects of the American Civil War. Being here makes you appreciate what came before you. To not reenact history. Both sides were Americans. To educate one of nature and history. History is important in many aspects of life and our future. Must understand Shiloh to understand significance of Civil War. Civil war. Very important for the future kids to learn about our history. To inform people of what happened. Significant role in Civil War. Turning point in the nations history for better and worse? Bringing history alive!! Civil war battlefield. Cool shit! Extremely significant. Eye opener, informative of history. Key battle in Civil War.  Historical. Laura Lee McKellips is exceptional.  Her knowledge is ----.  And good sense of humor, too. Priceless-such an important part of our history. So informative regarding the civil war and history in general-loved it! To be able to have a chance to remember the history of our country. To preserve the history of a war that should have never been fought, and to never forget our heritage. To teach and not repeat history. Very important Civil War battle. A reminder. Education. Historic battle. Includes life (civilian) at the time.  Contraband camps, and the futility of war. It preserves history. Keep history alive. Part of history Shiloh. Preserve the knowledge of our pasts and help pass it on. Return the history of our nation. The Civil War battle. Very important. Love this park. One of the most important events in American History. To honor and remember our history and the sacrifice of our citizens. It is part of the history of the U.S.  It is the doom of men that they forget. History of Civil War.  Learning about Western Theatre. Civil War History. The valuable lessons from the Civil War shared with the public must always be remembered to not be repeated. Education for all:  Need ALL to know. Historical Significance. Civil War and to show how the War progressed as well as the cooperation among town leaders and citizens. Preservation. I am a Civil War Re-enactor so nothing is more important than preserving and reclaiming the Battlefields so our children and children's children can enjoy them. The enthusiasm of Timothy Arnold and Paul Holloway made the trip worthwhile. Civil War. History. Passing history onto future generations. Civil War Memory. Civil War tragedy and War.  Importance of keeping a Nation together.  Freedom from Slavery. For people to remember what happened in the past so that it does not happen again. Helping us remember the value of the sacrifices. History. Priceless for teaching and entertainment for families. This reminds us of a critical part of our Country's history that is right down the road from us. To ---- and reserve the Battle of Shiloh. To commorates the people who died at this Battle. To keep such Wars from happening again. Very educational. To learn about history. An outstanding source of information about an important Battle of the Civil War. Don't forget our past and replace it with ""fake"" heroes. Historical. History-Civil War-Important because of history. I was looking for family history, Rangers were very helpful. It shows the history of the Civil War in our area. Learn. Remember courage and valor. Remember what the men fought and died for. That our Nation still stands and we really regret the awful price we had to pay.  We must always love one another as Jesus said. That those fallen have not died in vain. This Park location in relation to the Civil War makes it unique. To allow people to know the importance of this area of American History. To preserve the memory of our fallen heroes and to  never forget a time that ---- our Country. Very important. Very important. VERY. Wonderful Park; Rangers were great; we loved the History Tours. Huge turning point in the Civil War. Civil war. Very important battlefield and memorial. That there was a huge sacrifice to gain a step forward in the development of our nation.  Positive step. Memorial to the dead on both sides. It is so much a part of our history and so important to our nation. Paul Halloway was a guide ---- It makes the battles around Shiloh and and Corinth come alive. My family and I have a much greater appreciation of the events that occurred. A turning point in the Civil War. The park provides an opportunity for the public to understand the struggles faced by Americans. Major significant event for our history in my opinion. Knowing our nation's history and learning/observing in a respectful way (no scavenging, no climbing on Indian Mounds) is something people aren't learning at home. Part of our history as a nation, important to recall and to pass on to future generations. Teaches you about the civil war and how this USA was formed and slavery abolished."
261,Casa Grande Ruins NM,CAGR,"History. History and culture. Remembering native culture. History is always important. Culture, history, ---- of early Americans. History and importance of the ones before us.  Wonderful, awe inspiring. Historical. Historical. Very interesting. Love the historical connection. Connection to ancestral people-education. I would say a national treasure. Prehistoric history (preserving the native people's history/culture). Very significant. Historical, archedogical preservation. Heritage and understand the past people. History ---- ageless knowledgeable. Important history. Education. Essential to appreciating and understanding our country. History must be preserved! History of native Americans. History. It's part of our cultural history!  SO glad it's been preserved! Very important to keep going. History. Very interesting ranger very nice. First place built in us by it's native people. Great to see our Indian history. Great visit. Has people thinking about who lived here and how, over long periods of time. Historical, informative. Preservation of history to understand the past. Preservation on indigenous cultures. This park shows how adaptable the early settlers were. To preserve the buildings of the ancestral people native to Arizona. Very important. Very significant to Gila Rivera Indian community their ancestors made the Great House. The dimension of the Ruin. It shows our Country's earliest residents and their culture. Retain our historical origins. It tells a great deal about how people lived, worked and evolved. Native American history is more significant than people realize and this helps people realize this importance. Preserve ---- heritage. Organizational skills of early civilization and NATURAL earth warming cycles...which indicates communistic ideas of American Liberals of current society. Wonderful experience. Anything 700 years old needs to be treasured for future generations. We love Nat'l parks! It's history of being here so long is amazing. Landmark and learning site. Culture/historical value. History of ancient people. History. It's an important part of our country's history! History of the ---- people. Historical ---- our ancestors and their creativity and foresight in developing and sustaining a community. To educate all of the history of the Native Americans. Preserving history for posterity. Unknown history...very interesting. For generations to learn about the original inhabitants and to keep the culture alive. History! Sense of history. Thank you. Unique history. Very significant. Absolutely! History of S.W. History. It explains how past people survived a harsh environment. None. Preserving historical treasures. Preserving the heritage of the Hokokama people. Ancient history. It is interesting to learn about people who lived where I do long ago. History! Priceless part of American history. This park preserves the history of Ancested ---- Desert peoples. History of First Nations people. Historic   culture. Historical preservation. Learning and seeing how the Indians lived and independently survived. Significant.  I'm visiting the area and wouldn't have received this info if this park wasn't here. History preserved. Very much a part of our history. 0 Great-friendly, very helpful. It is just wonderful. Cultural. Preserving history of the ancestor Sonora desert people. Important in your history. History of our people. Recognition of native American contributions. Retain history of the area and people who lived here. To preserve history-awesome. History, culture, scenic. Learning the history of our Native Americans. Shows civilization and culture of those that lived here many years ago. I don't know. Historical artifacts; archeological sites preservation is very important for future generations. Huge. The heritage of the Native Americans. Preservation of history. That is ---- our nation. Historical significance to Native culture very significant. History. Cultural heritage of native Amer. I think it's important to know where we came from and what it took to get here. Native heritage and learning history. Please keep it as preserved as it is! Preserve early history. History. The importance of history from our ancestors. 1st national park 1st settlers in AZ. I'm glad you teach about the Pine and ---- teach youth. Part of our national history. Very significant to American and native American history. Very high-once they are gone, they are gone. Ancient history. Education!  Remembrance of past. Preservation of ancient culture, heritage. To preserve and let future generations learn about history. Preservation of an amazing past. Connection to our history, people, planet. Local cultural info. To teach the history. American history. Didn't know this was here! Great history. Archeological, historical treasure. Educational. Great historical information. Historical. History of people who proceeded the U.S. History we are not preserving enough.  Great to have this process monument. It is a national park from a long time ago. Yes this area demonstrates the history of our nation and their need to conserve and display it. Preserve history. Historical education. Origin of nations ----. Rich in history. Significant history of Hokokani culture, very important to conserve it and educate public about it. Very important. Preserving native American history and sharing it with everyone.  Showing that even without modern tools, they had the knowledge to develop such complex ----. Excellent preservation helps understand ancestor history. History/culture/respect for the past. Preservation of American/Indian historic monuments. Cultural heritage. History of peoples who made the U.S. To preserve the history of a culture that created this community. History. Cultural heritage of U.S. prior to European Settlement and exploration. To preserve this history. Historical culture. Keep history of Indians alive for us to learn and enjoy. Showing history of people. It's wonderful, so grateful! Early American culture and heritage must be protected so we don't lose our own history. History. Native American history. For future kids to enjoy.  Preserve National beauty. Extremely important for future generations. History of the people. Preservation of cultural, knowledge of engineering and life style. We need to appreciate where our Country was so we value our current living and society. Bringing learning and history to people who are here.  It's important to remind people how we use to live before. Heritage of local people. Historical education. Historical significance. History. History. We need archeological parks to better understand people who came before us. Very informative information about the history of the region and it's people. Good. Historic. Very much. Historical understanding of the area. It's roots.  Ancestry of ancient peoples. Preservation of archeological site. Very important! Education about and respect for the real Americans. Archaeological-Native peoples. Teaching. Very high historical significance. Excellent. It gives us a better idea of our cultural heritage. It's been preserved. Shows Hokokam Indian culture from 1300 AD. Very good. The previous culture needed to battle harsh conditions. All things great and small, living or dead, our God given visual blessings. To keep the history for everything forward. History of Native Americans. Excellent insight into a culture that flourished in a challenging environment. Historical value of civil unions from the past. The southwest and Native American culture are showcased and, more importantly, preserved. Always interesting to learn history of area we're visiting.  Was not aware of this particular tribe before. It shows how advanced earlier people really were.  Helps us know more about possible future events by studying the past. Heritage of this country.  How a society lived at this part of the country.  A people's ability to build, survive and provide. Insights into the people who lived here before, also history of discovery by European explorers. This park's significance is in setting apart the site and keeping it sacred and protected."
262,San Antonio Missions NHP,SAAN,"Historical aspect. Very significant for understanding of Colonial history of U.S. from countries other than England. To keep the history alive.  It helps the youth to understand. Very important to history. Preserving history of Texas and the Missions. Oldest, best preserved in USA. Historical importance; preservation of the past. It is the site of the first battle of Texas revolution. Texas history-very much needed. Early southwest Spanish history.  The colonization of the area.  The absorption of native american. Very important. Historical. It is one of the earliest buildings in Texas and is. To remember the old ways our people who built this part of the country, paving respect to the many who sacrificed. History of Texas.  First European settlers etc. To always remember. Good educational, learn about history first hand. History of Texas missions and Texas fantastic! Provides history on the creation of this country. To edu. First settlers to area. Very informative and historical. The history. The beauty, architecture in history. History. It is an homage to the people who created the very distinct south Texas culture. The documentation of the shift in culture from indigenous people to involvement of Spaniards and Catholic church. Historical site-changed the culture of the region. Ranger talk informative.  He was very knowledgeable. Teach U.S. and Texas history (a piece).  As a recent Texas resident this park is helping me to unravel the complicated and diverse Texas history. Information about earlier European settling of Texas and changes that occurred. History of Texas, preserving culture. History and culture. Blending of Native Indians and Spanish people to create Tejanos-simple to understand, even for special needs son! Historic due to the history and beauty.  Absolutely magnificent. Religious history. History of this country. The diversity that is the USA. Spanish helped to change the way of life of the Native American in a good way. History of missions and establishment of religion. History of Texas; influence of the church on the lives of people at the time. Must keep location running. The missions were/are a large part of the history of this area.  Being from East coast, I knew little about the missions until my visit. Excellent history of southwest, missions and significance of culture and people who live there. This park tells a part of our nation's story.  As someone from the Eastern US, it is a part of history that I wasn't as knowledgeable of. The San Antonio missions are a significant part of our nations history, culture and American identity. Preserving Spanish-American culture and telling their stories. Lighting on several exhibits was non functional. History of the people of South Texas. To show the purpose of the missions. History, culture, bike trails along the San Antonio River. Historical. The memory and honor of all imprisoned and murdered due to Catholicism. Shows history and culture of those people who initially populated the state of Texas. Very friendly and helpful employees. Very important. The history is portrayed beautifully.  The ""Day in the Life"" isn't working!  It teaches the lesson of Native life realistically-fix it! Missions are early part of Texas and Southern development.  Very overwhelming in that one mission still used today! To help further education of those visiting.  I learned even more about the missions than I already know. Teaches us about how Texas developed and became a part of the USA.  I was impressed by the info. Importance of Spanish and Mexican American culture to US Southwest. It is the bases of an entire race of people, and assists in the understanding of our nations ""pre-history"". Learning the history of the missions. History of the Spanish use of missions in the new World. This park demonstrates presence of faith and moral standards that predates the nation. History and preservation. One of the best kept missions-more amazing than the Alamo. The history. Ability to understand the cultural transformation that occurred here. Would love to see example of how vivid the colors of the parade were initially.  Example provided is helpful to see how colors could fade from sun. To explain the culture diversity in San Antonio. Building of a nation. Understanding the significance of Christianity in the development of present day American culture. The Park represents the history of Texas. Significance maintaining the Spanish Colonial history and indigenous history of earl San Antonio. The cultural aspect as well as the heritage of many of us in Texas. Religious and cultural impact on our State and Nation. To preserve the heritage for generations to appreciate the history of America. History of the beginning of San Antonio. Establishing western civilization within the new territory. Role of the church in settling the west. Early settlement of US. There is a lot of history; it's interesting and very beautiful. Important early Texas history. Mission trail. History of Texas. History of Texas. This park is part of the history and beginnings of the U.S.. A valuable insight in the rich tapestry of Texas history! The missions ---- of Texas culture. The history value of the Spanish ---- tells a story of the interaction of native American and Spaniards.  It is easy to gloss over if your an ----. (We're on our way to visitor's center.  Hoping to learn about significance of missions) in there through video). Some of the oldest buildings in America. Influence on the development and progression of the Texan cultures and impact on community views and transgressions. Preserving missions and culture. Real opportunity to visit the old and texture from another time and see the world through the eyes of the past. Very important to the history of the United States. It speaks to the history of the south Texas region prior to American annexation/settlement. Spanish history. I love the fact that this is still an active church and the significance is vital to the community. Preserve historical facts. The history and culture of the Indians and Spaniards who lived here. Everyone is nice and greeting. To understand significant history of TX-very important!  And U.S. The story of colonization and it's lasting effects on our society. Historical. Local cultural heritage. It puts a much-needed emphasis on the original inhabitants of the land. Preservation of history. Culture. American history-Texas history. History. Texas history. The history of Texas, Mexico and it's influence on our wonderful America!  God Bless the rangers who are here for us. The significance to me is that it gives me insight of my heritage and undiscovered culture. History. History. History the most important. High-it's not just Texan but American history taught by different methods-visual, audio. Understanding the cultural importance of the indigenous people is important in today's ever changing Hispanic lives and political landscapes.  We need to never forget! Demonstration of impact of colonialism on the people of south Texas. Speaks a lot about ---- of an empire.  Formed a permanent settlement to encourage the spread of settlement in the West. Missions are very important!  Historical! To inform others about slavery. History, heritage, architectural. From video and ranger tour, I have a new understanding of settlement and inclusion of southern Texas land and inhabitants into the USA.  The information on indigenous people and national politics was new to nice. Provide a view to the heritage of the SW United States. Learning about historical past. Early settlement of the region. Development of Agricultural practices.  European roots in Texas. Preservation of what life was like.  Great restoration. Shows a very important movement in the lives of Native Americans and that Catholic Friars were here to save lives. Preserving history, culture and educating those in the future. Religious history of U.S./Texas. The Missions represent early Settlements and give every one an idea of the heritage. It really captures the history of San Antonia. Culture and how the ""invaders"" forced their culture/values on the people. It give valuable back ground about the history of the area-especially relevant in this political year!"
263,Chesapeake & Ohio Canal NHP,CHOH,"None. For people to enjoy nature, to showcase our history. Important link to the history of transport and commerce in the Mid-Atlantic. History of canals.  Preserve natural beauty from development. Appreciate the history and conservation of the Native. A tranquil naturally beautiful, historically significant ---- in ---- ---- ----. The ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. The natural beauty has value beyond money! Historic canal-transport nature and bird sanctuary. C and O canal. Nature. Historical canal. The canal ----. Canal route-trade ----. Outdoor recreation opportunities. It's very pretty. Originally for ----. ----. ----. Beauty of the area ---- of resources used ----. It's beautiful and ----. It ----. Coro trail. A place of natural beauty ---- ---- ---- the ----. ---- history, ---- ----. The trade route ---- ---- ---- canal. Keeps nature ----. ""The Way West"", (it was thought). Marvelous to preserve this pathway along the Potomac in an undeveloped environment.  Enjoyed bicycling. Historical and natural beauty. Beauty of history. Historical John Brown and Civil War. History, reliving our past. The history of the canal. Nearly ---- with grand kids. The architectural significance and H.K. Douglas. Civil War. To honor Civil War participants. Green outdoor untouched forest. Engineering, architecture, transportation. It's important.  The Confederates passed through here. Trails-nature-walking. GREAT. Central to 19 century history, Civil War history, ---- history, and local history. I was born here and live here.  Love to come just to walk and photo shoot. The barge and its place in Georgetown.  Very scenic and beautiful. Historic contribution of canal to connect people and move goods. I think it's nice to experience all of the wildlife. Wildlife, and the divide between UA and MD. Opening for path/waterway to the ""West""-important to transporting goods from DC-Ohio. The C & O canal was a significant part of the infrastructure system prior to the railways. Important waterway with historical significance. Tourist-very impressive. Very important to the history of DC. Open the lock house. Beautiful preserved open spaces. The use of the C & O canal and the historical Fletcher's boathouse. The history of the Ohio canal. I am a tourist looks very good! Like the natural resources and access to river. Keeping nature in the nation's capital.  Showing its importance alongside all the governmental and political offices. River valley natural environment, nature close to capital city, Connection with Appalachians. Importance of trade. The national significance of this park is very important because it preserves the wildlife in our backyards, which is very rare to see. 0 It's scary and relaxing simultaneously.  My favorite place near home to escape I think. I love NPS! It shows the CO canal-how locks work-canal was an important commercial corridor from east coast going west towards Ohio river valley until railroads made the link sooner. Community. Beauty and preservation. Allows people the opportunity to reconnect with their internal and external environment.  It is important for our spiritual, emotional, mental and physical health. More historical attraction to  ""visitors ctr."". Wildlife. Close to the capital, ---- for 19th century industrialization. It's beauty! The wildlife, sight seeing, trail. Water and scenery. Learn about the uses of the canal and to appreciate the outdoors. Tells a story of what had been so we know where we are ----. Important to conserve beauty. The C and O canal, along with all canals is an important part of U.S. history with regard to ----. This park is a gem.  Need to add category EXCELLENT for all questions above. Beautiful nature. The old waterways of transporting goods through a cheaper use of water versus gasoline trucks/diesel. Good park rangers.  Good service. Historical and industrial sign. To help us keep in touch with nature. The canal. American history-Washington at his best. It's unused, under utilized and completely inaccessible by actual Georgetown residents. ---- of C and O Canal and Junction with Railroads. Canal History, Industrial history, nature restoration."
264,Grand Canyon NP,GRCA,"Grand Canyon National Park is our nation at its best.  Beauty, strength, spaciousness, diversity of visitors-pride of the park services. To safe the Grand Canyon-we are startled about littering and pollution in North America, for example, oodles of plastic bag for shopping. Amazing demonstration of geology, changing ecosystems, and anthropology. Need more trash bins. Learning about nature, history and culture. It's a natural landmark that brings people from all over the world. This is our first stop.  We came ---- --- from Monument Valley so we cannot add nothing else so far. It has an important history of the First Nations. It's very significant, has a lot of historic value teaching us about what America used to be. A view of history of geology, how life exists in rough environment.  Beauty of God's creation of the earth. God's majesty exceptionally displayed-great draw for Americans and foreign visitors alike. To help citizens realize the magnitude of the beauty we have domestically. It is a very peaceful view.  Reminds me of the beauty in the world.  It is good to see a place mostly untouched by humans. The unique quality of the geology and ecology interacting with each other are things that are so cool and deserve to be protected. It is a national treasure! The epitome of the ---- ---- our nation.  It shows ---- effects of weather, ---- and ----. No other country has a place like the Grand Canyon.  It is our privilege and duty to preserve it. Establishing the park system is essential.  We visited the Grand Canyon, Montezuma Castle, Wupatki Pueblo. A place to be proud of. Judging by the number of non-English speakers I heard, it appears to be a fantastic tourist draw which shows the beauty of our country.  I would definitely visit again. Natural beauty."
265,Charles Pinckney NHS,CHPI,"A better understanding of the role Charles Pinckney played in the nations history. Charles Pinckney's contribution to the U. S. Constitution. It's history and beauty of the park-like location. Education about ---- and his many contributions to the nation. I knew nothing of Charles Pinckary-only the name.  Very interesting, learned more about differences between VA plantations life and Charles town. Fabulous bit of history, wonderful, preserved, THANK YOU!  Very pleasant outing for group of Seniors too! 42 yrs of service.  Signer of constitution. Ease of walking around and preserving history for future generations to see and to learn. Founding father and history relating to the country's beginnings. The history that is in this park. To show Pinckney's contribution to our gov't.. History and legacy of Charles Pinckney's contributions to our country. History of our country-very nice. Charles Pinckney was one of our founding fathers. It is another stone that our national history sits upon.  Pinckney's life was ---- for those around him and the country. Key to the Constitution. Yes.  Very interesting to any one interested in the founding of the Nations. Learn about an important leader early in our Nation. Political and cultural history of the early Country and the South. It illuminates the importance of a lesser.  Known founding Father! Historically sign. to National and State and understanding how So. Carolina fits into the puzzle of the early U.S. Interesting history. It is a place to recall all that went into the creation of our Nation.  The challenges of early public servants is well expressed. First exposure to Charles Pinckney-had never heard of him. Pinckney's contribution to the Constitution. Ranger volunteer lovely. The site provided a look into the time period that produced one of the men that signed the Dec. of Ind. I learned quite a bit about Charles Pinckney from the DVD and exhibits.  Being from the Northeast, I don't ever recall hearing about him. Very important, good quality vital historial information for both culture and national ----. Two purposes-1. Teach about an important figure in the revolution and his family's connection to establishing the US of A.  Rice plantation. To show case the life and achievements of Charles Pinckney. Didn't know a thing about CP prior to visit.  Very informative-glad to learn-medium significant. Showing rural life of a forgotten -----historic archeology of slaves. It illustrates very well the importance of Pinkney in the development of American government. Pinckney's part in the development of constitution. Signer of Declaration of independence, dedication to SC history-2 ---- members to US gov teaches school children history. Influence of Pinckney's on formation of early US gov't early economy war history. Signer of the declaration of independence. Better understanding of a founding father. History of country ---- of George Washington here at home. Part of the history of the making of the constitution and 1 man significant in it. To honor one of the authors of the constitution. Education in historical area. Education. Historical, nature. History is important. South Carolina Plantation life. An important and almost forgotten ----.  We can't love such of our history, its all we have. Charles Pickney is really a forgotten founding father and if it weren't for this place, I honestly wouldn't have known about him. Connection to founding of country and Dec. of independence. Historic information for families valuable information for people learning about our country. History needs told to everyone, less we forget. History, true values of U.S.A. It is a tremendous idea so the young people know their history. Loss of our past. To further educate our children so they have better understanding. To reach about ---- country history. Home of signer of constitution-National history. We were a group of 7 seniors from NH, MI, MA and NC who thoroughly enjoyed this excellent outing. To share about the importance of Charles Pinckney in the founding of the nation.  To show how they found out where the original buildings were. Related to ---- of U.S. constitution leader of both State and ---- Gov't. History Pinkney family that produced 2 signers of the declaration of Independence. I was sadly unaware of the service Charles ---- gone (in his life) to this country. This Park is important. It speaks well to our nations heritage and the most significant contributions of one of our founding fathers. Glimpse of the life of an historical figure. Charles Pinckney didn't know his significance until today!!! Explains the importance of a person most people have not heard of. Pinckney helped write the constitution. To educate the population about someone who is less known, but who has an important role. High! Significant-I knew little about Mr. Pinckney before we came. Historic signer of constitution. It is part of US history, helps one better understand life, times, etc. Honors a founding father of our nation. Signing member constitution principle planner. In the picture of the constitution signers, the key doesn't make it clear which person if Pinckney. Revolution history.  Understanding ""thinking at that time conserving slavery and service to government. Teaching me who Charles Pinckney was and he contributed to our country. Forgotten participant of nation's beginning insight to evolution of the civil war, civil rights and our ever evolving national discourse. Brought to our attention the ---- contribution of Charles Pinckney. It highlights a still intact pre-civil war plantation.  It also highlights the history of a creator of our constitution. To tell the significance of Pinckney to the country, state and mankind. Education on Charles Pinckney role in history and life of his time. Helps tell the story of Significant ---- Pinckney. Remembering a man influential to the drafting of the constitution.  Life styles during slavery of whites and non-whites. Charles Pinckney was a signer and creator of the constitution. Land belonging to a crucial revolutionary figure, who also ---- Pres. Washington education on slavery is highly insightful. Learning about ---- ---- wrote the constitution of their life. Signer of constitution Charles Pinckney Farm. Signer of constitution.  Tells way of life in his time. Understanding historical background and seeing how staple states or persons from certain states contributed to national development. We keep the history of the founders, if we lose where they came from-we lose their perspective. You have it exactly right! Founding of our nation. Highlight contribution of Charles Pinckney to American history. Historical preservation of life and times of Charles Pinkney and ---- farms. It was part of the formation of the USA that is today. Represents a mass service to our country. Significance/history of Charles Pinckney. The founding fathers. The influence of Charles Pinckney in creating the constitution is very significant to our nation. This park represents an almost forgotten historical figure I had no idea how much influence he has on the constitution. To remind us on what sacrifices were given for our country. Provides insight to an important American I did not know about and was not in the history book.  It is not only important to S. Carolina but everyone in the US. A pioneer in the political system of our country. Tells the history of the founding of America.  What America was really like when we were free to choose. Pinckney was very historical figure for this area. A great historical site. Lost history. VERY important, one of our founding fathers-good to learn about him. Colonial history to ----. Shows the life and times of a little known founding father. Connection of Charles Pinckney to the Declaration of Independence. Significance of picnicking on ----. We are very interested in history but knew little about Pinckney. Residence of one of our nation's founders. U.S. constitution and SC history. The Constitution. Historic implication. Very informative.  A hidden treasure. Formation and foundation of the Constitution. An excellent neutral presentation helped me appreciate values of the times and did not limit appreciation of federal vs. local liberty.  We cannot appreciate history in only our ---- ----. Reminds us of our nation's beginnings for liberty and values.  The need for more devoted public servants. Teaching history and values about lesser known figures. Charles Pinckney NHS; NPS system; Charles Pinckney:  Constitution. To teach us about the Pinckney family and Charles' participation in the Declaration. To preserve a home used by a signer of the Constitution. It is an interesting Revolutionary-era site as well as Civil War relevant.  Their family was important to Charleston. It's good to learn more about South Carolina in revolutionary was as opposed to civil war. Very important!"
266,Rock Creek Park & Related Areas,ROCR,"To educate and protect historical land and animals.  To maintain a balance of human and environment/nature. History! History of construction. This park is a wonderful place to experience nature in the middle of our hectic/congested metro DC area. Nature in middle of nation's capitol. It gives Deists a place to escape and unwind, which is crucial. Georgetown, Washington, D.C. was a place frequented by our forefathers and the Old Stone House tells the story of the founding of the nation's capital. It is good to get a close-up look of animals. Nowhere. The exhibits. to view the Potomac River in historic Georgetown. So clean and neat. Civil War Defense. The Park renews the National spirit and inspires a love of nature. View of Key Bridge, Roosevelt Island and Washington DC city scape. DC history. It's a wonderful component of Washington DC.  A park like this in the nations capital is essential to all of us. Preserve. It's a beautiful park in DC. We loved the ----! Excellent example of George Shaw's history. Now it's a nice park.  Can't wait to bring our kids here for exercise and nature/history lessons. We appreciate it more for it being an oasis of greenery and nature in a very urban area than for its historical significance. The oldest house being restored. A space for outdoor recreation and get a break from the city. Excellent natural space in nation's capital. It is so wonderful. So much ----. Early Georgetown and Development of the Nation's Capital. A beautiful example of ---- architecture and the role of nature in an urban environment. Very historic value and well maintained. Haven't seen enough yet but beautiful and nice to have green space! Rock creek park is the capital cities forest. Without it, city ---- may never experience the beauty of nature. Preservation of mid-Atlantic watershed and forest while providing recreation and educational opportunities to visitors. Serves many. Like the closed to car sections. A bit of nature in the center of our nation's capital, a respite in a busy city. It's good to have a ----, park (green) with so many ---- in an urban area. Rock Creek Park. Beautiful park is excellent amenities.  I were ---- to additional maps. This park represents our values-providing access to nature and physical activity in urban spaces. A natural ---- within D.C.. I know former presidents used to ride their horses up here. A tribute to the environment/planet we inhabit and how fortunate we are to have people who present it. Colonial preservation. It's age and history it is the only house of it's kind in the district and it's great to be able to witness such history by physically stepping into it. Urban recreational opportunities and contact with nature. In the nations capital historical significance. Treasured resource, conserve it at ----. For public enjoyment. Preserving nature in nation's capital."
267,Wind Cave NP,WICA,"0 The history and cave formations were so much fun and safe for all to explore/learn on tour. The cave is unique and the setting at the intersection of prairie and forest is unusual.  Also, preserving the native wild life is valuable. Preserves the history and nature of the area.  Provided opportunities to learn about the past and discover how the caves were formed and used. As a wildlife preserve and as an amazing cave still under exploration. Awesome tour. The history of the cave geologically, as well as spiritually to the Dakota people as ---- of origin, social economic development CCC work project, political conservation of T. ----. Preserving it's natural features. Natural treasure. Wonderful cave! Protection of endangered species (black footed ferret, ----) raising awareness about human impact on nature/wild life, keeping natural formations as they are, keep natural formations out of private hands. To preserve the beauty of the park and the amazing phenomenon's that the park holds. Unique cave formations. The cave system and grasslands. It's unusual box work cave patterns as well as its open prairie space. Great way to see new (to me) box formations!  Good to be out of heat! History.  The cave itself is not only nationally significant, but internationally.  Its value to the world as a whole is great. Gives us insight to what brought us here and how it was formed. To make the natural resources available to everyone and not a select few. Cave is amazing. Spiritual importance to Lakota. Appreciation of nature. The beauty of the cave and the surrounding prairie.  Being a safe haven for animals and giving us the opportunity to experience ----. Excellent program and info on tour. Imagination. Allows general population to explore caves with ranger to learn about system. Best cave in world. I like it very much. The cave. Historic value, gives people an idea of early exploration. Preserve history and nature. Amazing, beautiful. Historical and educational learning. Preserving nature and beauty for future generations. Wind cave is so unique.  I also love the back story and connection with Native Americans. Very significant. First timer I've been on a cave tour. Caves. The cave. Just a part of all the wondrous beauty we have in the US. Preservation, education, appreciation. Unique space. It's cave structure and wildlife. Learning about geology and history preserving these important features. Wonderful preservation is so important. The uniqueness of the park. Cave system and prairie preservation, establish black footed ferret population, maintain Bison herd. Cave, nature. Very important. I thought the cave formations were unique. Caves-duh. Great family tour! History. Preservation of history and land thank goodness! Preserving history. To preserve an area that is unlike any other in the nation. Very important. An amazing experience!  Thank you! Marybeth K. is a great guide. Preserving nature. The exploration of earlier generations.  Very friendly guide. The natural beauty of the park should be available to see to all.  This is a wonderful part of the American experience. Admiral natural resources. Cave eco system awareness. Cultural significance to cliff dwellers. Exploration. It is a shrine, sacred and spiritual resource. It's history, formation of cave and park history, Boxwork formations, CC's. Just learning new things is good! Natural beauty. natural preservation. Preservation and conservation. Preserving America's lands. The cave and the history, Bison. The conservation of native culture, land and environment. The extensive cave system. The unique caves. Box work, native American tradition, history, landscape preservation. Ways for younger generation to see our history. Conserve and share natural wonders of the park. Unique natural history/geology. Rare, one of a kind place. The size of the cave and the area above area a natural treasure. To educate and inform of the wonders of this earth.  To preserve nature and it's beauty. Beautiful, unique, gorgeous box work and cave.  Loved it, want my great grand kids to also. Cultural and religious significance to the native Lakota. Preserving natures beauty for tomorrow's children. History of geological formations. Protecting national treasures. Preserve something very special that belongs to all of us. History. Preserve for future generations and historic value! The cave system. To allow all people/generations to view the beauty of cave and nature. National treasure. Spiritual place to native Americans. That this cave has most of the worlds ----. It's important for future generations. It's to be preserved for all future generations! Natural wonder/beauty of America, historical and scientific interest. One of the largest and very unique caves in US. The complexity of the cave and the box formations of calcite. Unplugged, a non electronic activity. A cave and prairie lands that need to be preserved. It's an amazing cave, which are uncommon and it's also easy to explore! To know the intricacy of the cave system. Good for the next generations. Awesome experience for the nation.  It has significant value to our Native American brothers. Beautiful history and science of cave. Extremely important, lots of history here. First National cave protected and 6th largest. History and environment. History. Mother nature created. Very important. 2nd visit, great tour. Awesome. First cave to be part of National Parks. History, preservation, native American/cultural. Thank you. To show off our natural national treasures. Fabulous!  Number #34 for my husband and me. Preserving history, resources. It shows off the natural beauty of S.D. It is significant because of it's unique beauty and importance to the Dakota Sioux. It is important for every person to see because it teaches people about America west. One of the world's biggest caves. The unique cave formations. One of the largest cave systems in the USA. History of Dakota people. Preservation of these amazing caves.  Respect for and recognition of the Lakota nation and the sacredness of this area to them. ---- for nation's diversity of wildlife. Beautiful rolling prairie and abundant wildlife.  The cave was very enjoyable. Preservation of wildlife and the natural caves and it's significance to Lakota culture. Preserving irreplaceable, invaluable natural wonders 300,000 years in the making. Very important for Lakota People-would have liked to see more about this. The Wind Cave-very unique. It's natural and beautiful and our duty to preserve natural beauty and resources for generations to come. Incredible wildlife and amazing cave system link to Native American culture. The importance of the Caves and the ---- of the geologically, as well as the importance and uniqueness of wildlife in the Black Hills ----. I've never been in a cave before and Wind Cave was so extensive.  I was amazed!"
268,Shenandoah NP,SHEN,"Preserving and show casing park's beauty. Preserving wildlife and the history around it.  Letting people see wild as untouched as can be. Preservation of God's beauty. Preservation of nature on the East coast!! To preserve the natural beauty and history of the area. Not very much to see at overlook. Any beautiful nature area is of national significance of the park. Preservation of nature. Nature. Roosevelt's vision/John Muir's vision to get people outside and increase awareness of the importance of preserving our environment remains critical. The old forest is beautiful.  I'd like to know more about the plant life/wild flowers growing along the drive. American wilderness. Nature. The area of this park is huge and exceptionally scenic.  Everyone should come to see this and enjoy. A testament to the nature here. Awesome place to get out and away from everything. This park maintains access of the public to wild scenic areas. It's awesome. Mountain park. To teach our posterity the importance of nature and the world around us. The A+. Preservation and education. Beautiful nature, good trails, nice Ranger Programs. Allowing people to see a portion of our great outdoors and wildlife. Land conservation and wildlife preserve a place to unwind and relax. The historic and natural beauty of the wonderful valley. Close to major cities of the East providing escape and understanding of nature. The importance of ---- and appreciating our natural resources. Preserve nature and natural environments for all, to enjoy.  Protect for future generations. History, American culture, tradition. Keep open ---- ----. So close to our Nation's Capital and so beautiful. Yes! First Eastern park. Largest mountains close to the nations capitol. People of all ages and economic groups can enjoy nature. Preserving history and tradition and getting in tune with nature. Protects mountainous corridor thru Appalachian. Glad to support Nat. Park Areas.  They  would be trashed otherwise. Nat'l beauty. Allow people to experience the best views in the USA. Close to Washington DC. Invaluable resource. View of what ---- ---- ---- ----. Massive significance.  Parks are critical to culture and sanity of our nation's people. ---- The animals, nature and peace. Believe all national parks provide an outstanding opportunity to experience a section of the nation. View. Historic and Appalachian trail. Preserve access to geological resources. Preserve history and natural resources and educate the masses. Preserve nature for future generations. It's a meeting place for people from across the US. It's beautiful-it's our happy place! It is a beautiful part of our country that should continue to be preserved and showcased. Preserve our natural resources and open spaces for ALL to enjoy! We love hearing about the history of the mountain people. Location, scenery. Wildlife. Preserve land and wildlife and vistas. It preserves fantastic areas for countless generations to view and learn from. The history of the Appalachian region. ""An Eastern Park in the Western Tradition"". Beautiful. Medium sized area with natural resources focus in East, serving as a species source for areas managed differently. Excellent. The park seems to have a lot of history as well as being beautiful. It captures a very beautiful part of the country, so it's preservation  is much appreciated. Wildlife, beauty of the mountain ---- ---- way mountain ----. Mountains that are not developed. Very important. Within easy driving distance of major Eastern population centers. Geography, wild life. Heritage. It is impressive to have so much beautiful wildness in the heart of the East coast. Significant. CCC origin story. Preservation of natural beauty for all to enjoy. Natural beauty and grandeur. That it keeps wild places wild. ---- Good to see the natures ---- down properly. Mountains and wildlife. Recreational facilities, conservation. The civil war. The significance is that is a place of natural and historical beauty, quite worthy of protection and preservation. Wildlife, nature retreat. It preserves a large amount of land in this region of the country.  It gives locals and visitors a wonderful place to see nature and escape in a busy area of the US. All National Parks are amazing. CCC work, love Rapidan Cabin. Natural beauty. Preservation of forest wildlife allows us to see nature at its finest. Preserve the beauty God created! Fabulous learning and values of our park. The beautiful natural resources in the USA. Protection of nature, recreation in the nature. We came here for the walking trails.  We are from Spain.  We didn't know the national significance. Nice park on the East coast, most are in the West. Close to the nations capital, lots of brook trout! Sharing nature. Regional significant not national. Park established East of the Mississippi encourages appreciation of our heritage and land for millions of people living ----. Historical value of entire area. Yes it is. Preservation of natural beauty, preservation of water quality in Ches. watershed local recreation and education. Awesome! It is maintaining the natural resources of this nation along with giving recreation opportunities for the people who wish to come. It is nice to have places like national parks to enjoy the scenic views and to commune with nature. CCC-great exhibition inclining of black citizens. Historical value, i.e. range history, civil war.  National beauty, opportunities to be in nature, hiking, recreation and learning. Manages and interprets this high elevation area natural/cultural history it's our to enjoy and care about. Preserves the natural beauty for all to enjoy. Preserving nature for visitors. To keep wilderness educated important. Yes. Beauty. Natural beauty.  Animals. National treasure! Excellent. To protect wildlife nature and to educate the future generations we liked the junior ranger program! Give people good place to go see ---- do things you can't in city and Iowa. Preserving diversity (flora and fauna). I'm Spanish, really beautiful. This park helps us to understand the beauty of our natural landscape in Virginia. Nature. The sense of beauty and history. Close to most of the population of the country, hopefully more people realize this!  We need to get out more (as a nation). Beauty. Natural wonder. Preserving and making available nature, landscape and fauna of Eastern mountains and forests. A great place to live, enjoy nature. Historical wilderness close to a large portion of the nations population East Coast parks are few and far between. Thanks. Mountain ranges. To preserve and conserve extraordinary natural environment in such a way as it can be enjoyed by the public-and still conserved. Preservation of wild places. Great opportunity to get away. Recreational use of the mountains-historically and the wildlife found here. As all of our national parks, it's good reminder of how beautiful America is. For people to use it. Preservation of dark skies, natural setting, views, opp. for outdoor recreation close to city. Shenandoah is beautiful! I am 20 and do not know. Without our national parks we would have nothing worthwhile. Preserving nature. Preserving the wildlife. The river. A great place for everyone to learn and enjoy nature. Recreation, education and preservation. Keep and protect land. Sights, wildlife, people, mountain air. I'm not sure. To preserve the nature and wildlife of the region. Beautiful old mountains. Beautiful scenery, trails. Keeping natural beauty and wildlife available for all to enjoy.  Conserving our natural natural treasure. The camp grounds along with the animals. WPA projects were so important during depression era.  We are now recipients of their great work! Shows how the country should look before colonization. Colonial history? Showing off the beauty of our country. It's the only one on the Eastern sea board.  Thank you for maintaining a wonderful place that I can visit. Historical. Very significant. Good. Preserve natural beauty and resource. Beauty, history, VA treasure. Amazing brook trout fishing and untouched back country. The Shenandoah ridge is a unique feature that should be shared. Beauty, nature and a great time. Beautiful nature and good recreation and an important historic area. It highlights natural beauty in nature. Nature, refuge from urban stress. Mountains both natural geography, flora and fauna are invaluable for the preservation of ecology and history.  A place to relax and re set! To learn about your local wildlife and conservation. History and wide open spaces to hike in. Keeping open space for both people and wildlife. Absolutely significant. That Lewis Mtn was the first set aside for blacks. Very relevant the CCC program promoted by Roosevelt in the 20's was a great initiative I did not know. Allowing so many the natural beauty and history. It preserves the beauty of our country that many people never get to know. The fact that the mountain is still pure. Wildlife, recreation. I think all NPS are significant. The amazing views. Extremely significant to our history and to preserve wild places for our children. Great more needed. Historical, natural features, great recreation. History, love of nature through generations. Keeping areas natural and pristine for future generations. Learning, relaxation, fun, adventure. Nature, we need it. Outstanding place for hiking and picnic. Preserving nature! This park means everything to me.  My favorite is of cause the bears.  The park is beautiful and peaceful. To me, it feels like home. It represents an East Coast effort which was a West coast necessity. Appreciation and understanding of nature. Beauty of the land, mountains, wildlife. Pristine majestic views! Wilderness areas, eco system, natural history. Great. It is a great get away. Huge-keep it! It's beauty. It's history and beauty are wonderful. Skyline drive, nature, hiking. All of it. Beauty on the East coast. Great piece of history to preserve. Nature appreciation of one's surroundings. Nature in tact!  Preserved for all. Preserving nature. To show the young generations the importance of the beauty of their country. The history and beauty is necessary to preserve.  I would like to be more signs above civil war events in Shenandoah. Preservation of natural beauty is paramount."
269,Hamilton Grange NMem,HAGR,"American history at the beginning of our Country and the men who started our Nation. Interesting ----. Brilliance of Hamilton. Did Hamilton justice! Very good. Founder of the Federalist Paper and ---- of the Treasury. Great man. Good. Bringing to light the significance of this founding father. An amazing opportunity to see history come to life! Past history. History. History-very important to understand U.S. history. Awareness of Alexander Hamilton's influence on creating our country. I love Hammy. A walk back through history. Historic recording of our history. Alexander Hamilton, life-excellent. Learning about our four fathers. It does a great job of informing everyone of one of our fore fathers. The importance of the man. Historical ---- a realistic review of the past. Our early history has to be remembered. Tribute to Alexander Hamilton's legacy. Very important in understanding Hamilton's huge contribution to U.S. It's the first time I visit and I loved it. Very important!  More people need to know this is here! Extremely important-one of our most famous founding fathers. Founding father-significant player in the forming of the country's structure-really incredible foresight.  Great info for the public. He was a founding father and our children and grand children should know more about him. Learning about the life of Alexander Hamilton and his contribution to this nation. Ranger Ohariano was amazing! Hamilton! Hamilton, until recently, has been under valued and unappreciated.  The popularity of the musical is an opportunity to educate which should not be missed. Home of one of the Founding Fathers.  Super significant. Alexander Hamilton was pretty significant. Political and ---- history. Alexander Hamilton-greatest American non-native born! 0 This must be preserved for good; excellent exhibit. Alexander Hamilton and his role in American history and life as it is now. It carries on the legacy of the Hamilton's and educates the public about his life. Part of nation's history. Shows importance or Attum's life. It was very good to see Hamilton house, not much of his life is as well known as it should be. This park does an excellent job of high lighting one of our most important founding fathers. Home of Great America. Preserving the only home founding father Alexander Hamilton owned. To see the home of Hamilton, think about NYC at that time in history and also Hamilton's place in history. Alexander Hamilton made American what it is today! It is wonderful to preserve part our history!  This home is what makes NYC rich in culture. Yes-but it is really impossible to get tour inside the house.  Can't sign up even that morning.  Directions to talk tour are NOT on the brochure. Alexander Hamilton was an integral part of American history and the upkeep of his home is an important part of our culture. Great Ranger talk loved films. Learned a lot that I had forgotten about Hamilton. Alexander Hamilton was one of our friendly fathers.  Maintaining his home is very important to the heritage of NYC and our country. Hamilton was a prominent historical figure. To remember our nation. A. Hamilton. HAMILTON FOR LIFE! Gives us a look at the background, life and lifestyle of Alexander Hamilton.  As well as a look at Harlen Circa early 1800's. It gives us an insight into the Hamilton family's life. Its very pretty and beautiful and also it's big. The open space and the Greens and house. Hamilton lived there and was one of the most important and crucial charades in the early day of the US development. Obviously, as Hamilton is a ""Founding Father"" and architect of our banking system, this site is worthy of maintaining."
270,Whitman Mission NHS,WHMI,"History of our early pioneers and the Native Americans!  Great history opportunity. Important part of history Western US. The park shows how tragedy and false assumptions about ""people"" groups result in blood shed.  Something our culture still needs to learn. To provide the correct history of the area and educate. Very significant!  Our children need to know our history and the hardship of it! The history of the originiation of westward expansion. Important history. Beginning of settlement of the Oregon County. The multiple histories, time periods and cultures memorialized here. It tells a nuanced, balanced story of Native-American and early settlers.  The movie and display  messages were sensitive and fair. The Whitman's trying to convert the Indians. I learned there is a huge significance to this park.  It's not just about murders of the woman's but a long term relationship to native people both historical and ----. Historically important to know of the past and influences of the whales. History of park. I grew up coming here now I bring my kids here. The national significance of this park is to teach about the history and the way these people lived every day. Very good history. Illuminating the dynamic history of the area. The founding of Walla Walla and the Mission. Preserving and teaching about a part of our history of Westward expansion and the cost of that expansion. It demonstrated the conflict between the Native Americans and early settlers. It documents historical events in early encounters between American Missionaries and local Native people; explains reasons for conflict. A good history lesson.  Some goose mess on trails, but better than most. Effect of immigration on Indian nations and effect of the massacre on how Amer. gov't. viewed Indian nations. To enhance both a deeper appreciation for the values of the Native culture, and for the will and dedication of Euro-American immigrants and to encourage progress in continuing to improve relations between the two. Two significant issues:  the history of the ""westward migration and national character"" and lessons to learn about the blending of cultures. A site of cultural misunderstanding turned violent which impacted political and social opinion of Native Americans and westward expansion. The connection with Ft Vancouver and growth of tax ---- nation along with the damage what ---- caused to ---- populations and adding to conflict ---- arrogance. Contact between Americans and natives. Tolerance, diversity, peaceful co-existence. Westward pioneer history!  Fascinating. Reveals what history lies all around us.  I appreciate it being preserved. It highlights the culture clash of Christians, whites and native aborigines. Beginning history of westward expansion and the merging of very different and diverse cultures. Great importance for settling of Pacific Northwest and the history of the Oregon Trail. The history of the early settlers in this area and our relations with Native Americans. Yes, it's historical. The many factors behind this mission are still being felt.  Truth needs to be heard in order to change the future. Historical. History that needs to be made known and never lost. How we can live here NOW. Initiated westward immigration. Learning about the Indians. Major relevance to issues surrounding us now regarding respect, etc.. Native American and white people relations and history.  The Sager family. Oregon Trail, NATIVE AMERICANS, utmost historical. That people died trying to do good. The process of settling along the Oregon Trail. The fact that the Massacre that took place ---- ---- between people that in ---- poorly. The Massacre was part of the impetus for Congress to incorporate the Oregon Territory. Historical-reminder that U.S. Government was and is, oppressive and not worth of trust. To understand what happened here to further learn. An important part of our local history. Good representation of move West and damage to Plains Indians; importance of steps along the way. It represents the pioneering spirit that has allowed our Country to grow and offers lessons on how to do better in the future. Very educating in understanding the relationship between the Native Americans and Pioneers moving West during that time. It's pretty. Part the ---- conflict much more in perspective ---- can very ---- see that ---- Letting us know the events that helped turn territories with states. Helped explain native American/emigrant relations. It is because of the Westward migration from East to West a National experience of profound importance and consequences. Marcus Whitman was a True Trailblazer, Missionary and Doctor. Westward expansion and it's impact on the native population. Pacific N.W. history and Indian history. Westward expansion.  Native American history. Representative of the cultural interactions and misunderstandings in mid-1800's America. Oregon trail-westward expansion. Whitman's mission history.  More info on the Cayuse Indians would be appreciated to pay homage to the entire history of this area. Location of Whitmen Massacre. Great historical value. Preserve our history. Cooperation.  Learning.  Taking care of each other and planet. The story of pioneer ""infiltration"" to Native lands and the impact of their arrival.  Love the push to more inclusive history sharing. Western history settlement. Oregon trail, westward experience of U.S. conflict between white settlers and Native Americans. Nice to see a massacre of white people by ""savages"" told from both perspectives.  I have no doubt the Whitman's had good intentions, but the got what they deserved. It shows the effects of two cultures colliding and the results of it. Important and sad ending to a fascinating story, offers perspective. History shows how disrespect caused problems and death.  Great reminder we need to respect each other. Learning about differences in culture. Expansion. The history behind the Whitman Mission. The story of the Whitmans and the way we view their world today differently than the past. Historical and future considerations and attitudes. History of native peoples and Oregon Trail. Absolutely most important. Settlement of the West-beginning of migration west. The relationship with the American Indians and the new people. Very significant.  It tells an important story about the history of the Northwest, and the interaction of native people and white settlers. History of our movement West. Impacts on settlers and native Americans. Exemplifies well intentioned actions based on self centered arrogance that yield sad ---- for all. Very informative in a informal, casual way. Was it the catalyst for the Oregon territories. I love this place.  The ---- was delicious. Important historical event. History of OR trail.  Native history.  Great movie! Native American history. Excellent representation of a very complicated part of 19th century NW human history. Historical relationship with Whitman's and Native Americans.  How settlers felt about changing native Americans. History of the native Americans of this area. Improvement moment in the settlement of the West. Oregon trail/westward expansion and native relations. History so we don't ----. The trials of the pioneers. Balanced and fair view of the interaction between white people and Indians. Settling the west treatment of natives. Understanding the desire of Marcus Whitman to help the Native American tribes even at the expense of his life. Whitman story.  Native culture. The cultural crossroads between native and incoming American people. Story about clash of cultures-white European and Native Americans. It shows how lack of understanding of other cultures can create a devastating experience. History of our area-fun and meaningful to walk on trail. Don't continue to change people through religion. It is interesting that these were the first white women to go to Oregon.  It is a good chance to fairly discuss why people do things and to understand.  I think this place did a pretty good job-especially when we live in a time of a tendency to bash Christians. This is one of the significant places that opened the west but at the expense of the Indians and ----. Very significant for migration westward. This park tells a great story of the history of our nation growing and great for visual learners. Educated people on how the white man wasn't exactly respectful of the natives ways and traditions. Historical perspective relating to Americans' relationships with Native Americans. Between the significance of missionaries and the Indians. Tells an important story of cultural, historical significance. Great film. The interpretation of Whitman Mission is very important.  The Mission supported travelers on the Oregon Trail and was a major part of the US integration to the West. The site has an incredible Indian exhibit. Learning opportunities about both sides of the story!  Video was VERY well done! The historic significance is large.  It also is the best local attraction in the Walla Walla Valley. Trying to change the Natives to another society isn't such a good idea. Very educational-we love going to all the Parks-so thankful for them-plan to see all of them. First woman on Oregon Trail.  Several trees and plants introduced to area.  White man's disrespect for Native American traditions. The Whitman Mansion ---- much in common with interactions in other parts of our country. From it we should learn respect for other people's points of view."
271,Pu'ukohola Heiau NHS,PUHE,"A unique volcano in the U.S. It's a unique environment in regards to the different eco systems in the United States. Cultural heritage for indigenous and island cultures. The history. It was significant to the ---- of the islands!  Super interesting to learning about. The rock temple behind the visitors center. 0 This park was established because it's where Kamehameha and his people worked to unify the Hawaiian Islands. It was the sole reason as to why the Hawaiian Islands are now unified. Historical site to King Kameha Meha and Howke none all the islands. The national significance of this park is the spread the education of the origins of Hawaii. To beware the Hawaiian culture and to give knowledge to foreigners. Excellent ---- Hawaiian History and culture. Importance of Hawaiian history. I believe it's important as per your description. Historical sign ---- Important to bring culture of the Hawaiian people to the world. The temple united the Hawaiian people. 0 Birth of Hawaii with the building of the temple. Demonstration of cultural elements and history. Love the history. Part of our history. History and pride. History of Hawaii. The temple and king gaining power. Historical. It was very interesting to learn about Hawaii's history. The video was amusingly politically correct. The rangers were more informative. Wonderful. Hawaiian history. 0 Hawaiian history. History to ---- the great. Part of ---- just like history of other states. Preserving one's history is always of value. This is part of our nation's history. Very significant to ---- the God of War to allow the Hawaiian Islands to unite. ---- islands into ----. For the Hawaii people, ---- the temple for the ---- then he could ---- all the Hawaiian islands. Great park. It really ties together what we have learned at the museums on the main Island. Hawaiian heritage. Most historical place in Hawaii. Significant because of location. Very informative as to Hawaii ----. Very nice and very important. History of Kamehamehai and unification of Hawaii. Cultural, historical value. It's for a cultural spiritual tradition of the Hawaiian. High. Of valuable cultural significance.  Was very helpful in learning more about Hawaiian history and culture. History and culture. George Rocks!!! History and heritage of the unification of the islands, role it played for Kamehamehia. Preserve Hawaiian heritage. Ruling leaders used the ---- for economical purposes until made into ---- with ----. Hawaiian culture. Unification of islands. Important particularly to ---- people----- in accomplishment. It is an important historical site of one of our country's native peoples-this is incredibly significant. Unification of Hawaiian island. ---- Temple commemorating the prophecy of ---- to unite the islands. The ---- Gives perspective to the far east (D.C.) and the far West (HI) of the U.S. Learning about old Hawaii. Very informative. Educational info very ----. Home of the kings. Important center for early Hawaiian history and religious ----. Informational. Very important to ---- history. Learning that Hawaii being a part of the U.S.A. doesn't lose it's culture. Peace. King ---- Very significant. ---- is a major individual in Hawaiian history and we learned that this site was vital in him becoming the king! Great historical significance. Protection of ruins, and ---- very well coordinated. Hearing nature history....educational. History of Hawaii Island. Important site in Hawaiian history. Impressive Hawaiian architecture of major (very major) and minor temples. Good views-possible sightings, ---- Learning about the national heritage of Hawaii. Local culture and history, natural history also. To promote learning of cultural history and to preserve for generations to come a living story-important to carry on. Historical significance. ---- 0 A+. Being that this was built as a ---- carries even more significance influence to see what we can do together. George rocks! History culture legacy! History/culture. I approve and support this establishment. I appreciate all that it offers! Maintaining cultural traditions. Peace. To preserve and educate people about the island. Unification of troops and acceptance of ---- Wonderful for those of us from Oregon to learn about the culture. Unique history. Sacredness and importance of knowing Hawaiian History. ----. To preserve and share with  many. Exhibit the ---- tradition of the native people. It is a very important place and should be shared with visitors. Historical site important to Hawaiian culture. Educating visitors of the rich cultural, history of the area. To learn about Hawaiian history and the importance of Kamehameha's building of the temple and subsequent unification of Hawaii. Hawaii culture and history. To save our history for future generations."
272,George Washington Memorial Pkwy,GWMP,"It's a wonderful place to picnic. Beauty and rec. Preservation of the falls and nature. Natural beauty. The historic significance of how it came to be more children should learn and be able to see this most beautiful and historic park. A vestige of nature, unbothered beauty. The beauty of true nature seeing mother earth at her purist. It's history and establishment via George Washington to friends. Glad to see bathrooms repairs. Very good clean good secure green span continue to ----. Natural beauty of America's great outdoors. George Washington. The old canal system and natural beauty. George Washington-canals. Very high considering the Patowomack Canal trace (especially with it's ties to George Washington). Beauty of falls near D.C..  Significant waterway in past. Visual. The falls and river history. So close to nations capital. Preservation of national beauty and allowing access to all. National treasure, nature beauty preserved. Preservation of natural beauty of Nova area. American landscape. Preserve the river.  Educational purpose.  Sustain. This park is vital to the area as a place of learning and appreciation. No idea. C and O Canal. Helps keep nature in its natural course. Would be nice to highlight economical impact of the canal in colonial VA/MD/DE. To show a beautiful place that has historical significance. Close to DC, natural beauty and waterfall, historical value. Recreational, leisure, appreciation of and connection to nature. Washington's stone and kayaking. To maintain a diverse geography. The pride and heroism of the heroes. ---- is good at this ----.  Also ---- and experience memorial to Lady B. Protection ---- sacrifice, enslaves community protect. Makes clear the duty of every citizen to serve his/her country. USA history, tragedy, victory, memories. Civil war, ---- leader, ---- slaves lived in on estate. To honor America's history. History, re. Lee ----. As a service member, I appreciate the opportunity to remember and honor those who came before me. Its recent historical significance (canal) but also its ancient topography. Of great significance to Washington.  Good as a park and culture for the arts. My parents and grandparents came here, so it's very historic. T.R. is a national treasure. Very significant-it tells the story/history of Alexandria Va-very good. It's a historic site. Minimal. Historic/Civil War. Civil War history. US history. Respect and reverence. I feel it fits Teddy Roosevelt very well to have this island to learn from. Robert Elee Memorial dedication. Close to my ---- and truly recreational memorial. Cultured and emotional. Glen Echo has been a bastion and example of why the park service is still crucial in this country. Remembrance of those who served. Respect and honor. Timing of -----very poor.  Missed changing of guard because tram was slower.  Why not have tram that takes you directly to ""changing"" and ----. Great place. Lots of great ---- park area ---- experience-overlooks ----. A critical link to history and our past; typically for our young. History, family activities. Brings community together and fosters communication and collaboration in art community, preserves art. Glen Echo Park is an example of how the NP Service has collaborated well with the local community to preserve historical sites but increase arts/education engagement. A memorial to our fallen heroes. To honor the fallen. Honor those who have sacrificed for our nation. Sacred, priceless history.  Wonderful and knowledgeable ---- volunteer at Lee house.  ---- is a national treasure.  Place is ----. Because the staff is awesome. Love Teddy Roosevelt. TR memorial. Historic remembrance and nature appreciation. I don't know. This is one of the only get away's in the city.  It's very necessary. Teddy Roosevelt memorial.  Some history but not exactly sure of the significance. To honor Teddy Roosevelt as a conservationist and President. Outdoor rec. in nation's capital. Preservation. Founder of National Park Service. The carousel is a treasure and the 4 person restoration team should be nominated for a presidential level recommendation for historic conservation. Theodore Roosevelt was a outstanding leader! It honors the memory and service of the greatest American President. Historical. We loved the level of dedication shown to preserve the carousel.  It is a national treasure. TR educational, nature. A dedication to Teddy Roosevelt.  It's one of our favorite parks. T. Roosevelt established a giant natural awareness of nature. The trail. Beautiful and very well kept. The Theo memorial and wildlife here on the island. Accessibility and history. It is a nice escape from the horrible city. Mason House, Colored Pageant. Tribute to the vision and leadership of President Roosevelt.  Modern politicians could do well to read and live his guidance. EXTRAORDINARY! Community resource. Historical Amusement Park. Civil Rights Movement, Amusement Park, Clara Barton and Red Cross, it's super cool and has great architecture. Local for Arts, Music, Classes, reasonable prices. This is ---- type of nature you can experience in DC and it is great!  We named our son after the island! This Urban Park offers a wide variety of Arts and Crafts opportunities, and many historic items of interest. Excellent community park. Best natural setting close to D.C. Roosevelt and others impact on designating the need and value of creating protecting parks and national sites. Memorial presidential, natural beauty, ----, friends, timeliness. A beautiful outdoor memorial for the president who gave us the national parks. Theodore Roosevelt state. Historic amusement park. It's wonderfully significant that Glen Echo has been preserved. Nature and historical significance. Historical. The wonders of the world are easily seen. Canal history/natural beauty. The canal planned by G. Washington makes this party relevant. This area began it's history with the beginning of our countries history. Great park! Preservation of nature. Don't know, proximity to Mount Vernon. The home of the first president gives a unique look into the life during the formation of this nation. I never get tired of coming.  I've been visiting since 1971.  Thanks. Provides appreciation of Potomac River, Mount Vernon, George Washington and monuments. History of Potomac and canal, GW history including national and local history. Don't know. Early historical travels, good for American history. Remembering those who died for the nation is an important part of societal cohesion. History and culture. The perfect get away from metropolitan life into a beautifully preserved natural landscape. 1. Beauty.  2. History-canal. Educational, recreational, historical. George Washington, canal. Near DC. Educational of geology and history. To save the pristine views for future generations also it's historic value of early transportation by canals on both sides of river. Close to Potomac river, the life link of ----. It is a great place to see nature. Natural beauty, coupled with history about commerce/trading via old canal system. Place of natural beauty, important to show our kids. Beautiful area, nice to have this s close to DC. Terrific, the wilderness in the back yard of DC. It saves natural beauty for future generations and tells the story of Westward expansion. Love the nature. Views of Potomac and falls that are easily accessible, history of canal and early commerce. Great access, park location. Historic. High. Preserve and educate and provide space for public to enjoy nature. Preserve natural lands inside the city. History needs to be remembered, and the honor of visiting either your own family or just in general is amazing and I hope it continues. The view and the trail that enables safe running for the people. More frequent trail maps. Beautiful. History, honor. Community, nature. Trail to G.W.'s home! George Washington walked on these grounds and likely rode horse-back along the bike path. It's a great place for outdoor activities.  Trails, point. Understanding and honoring history. Unification of North and South. Easy access to trails, river, trees, nature. Thank you for preservation efforts. To honor our fallen war heroes. Beautiful. History that it holds is priceless. National treasure. Memorial to my past president also showed vision of natural parks memory. Memorial memory of great value to our nation. Memorial, historic and significant honor of greatness. Memorial had to past president. Honor of service persons. The history. Very important. Lincoln and Lee reunification of the US. Historical significance, a reality check for civilians, honor and pride. Understanding/knowing important history (the good times and difficult ones) and appreciating where we have come from so we can move on towards more ---- union. Runners share the road. A wonderful way for a family to enjoy God's majesty through the falls and the rocks. Importance of Marines for freedom. Remembering the brave men and women who gave their lives for the nation in defense of freedom. The ---- To honor the brave men of the USMC and their strength and bravery. Dedication to U.S. ---- lost life. Historic parkway, water way right next to the nations capital. Outdoor freedom. Fort Hunt, Mt. Washington historical. History preservation. Preserve gorge, water system and eco systems. Waterfalls, variety of trees and plants. The beauty. Sightseeing, beautiful river. It's in and around our nations capital, it represents the nation.  I love the GW parking."
273,Petroglyph NM,PETR,"History of some of the first people to live here. Historical. Our rich Native American Traditions. History of Native Americans. We must learn from our past, even distant past.  This park show cases important ""relics"" that interest, intrigue and educate. Preservation of key aspect of Pueblo culture. Ancestral history. Ancient history. Historical and educational.  A definite great experience. A pre-history that is invaluable to the native ancestors who created it and to those seeking their story. It is a significant place that preserves the unique heritage of New Mexico-geologic, Native American, Spanish and US latest immigrants. Record of previous inhabitants. It is where it all began.  They were here first and left a story.  Please mark trails better with more arrows. Petroglyphs has the best display of petroglyphs in ABQ metro area.  Petroglyphs are one of the finest expressions of ancient Native art and culture. The cultural history of American Indians. Very important.  Location/proximity to Albuquerque requires Fed. Designation as NM to protect ancestral art. We need to keep our cultural heritage alive and these areas help to do that. To preserve ---- history. Tremendous geologic and prelingual Native records, this is one of my favorite places ABQ. The volcano remnants. Presentation of the past. Preserving petroglyphs and sights of where our ancestors once and still treasure. Preserves culture of early Americans. Absolutely! History and culture. History and culture. Wild life basis. Very important. Old sell ----. Excellent! Native American art work. No opinion. Geological and ancestral. Preservation/conservation of important artifacts, haven for wildlife and native plants. Providing information on ancient American culture/civilization. Geological and anthropological. The Park was absolutely necessary to protect the patroglyphs because they are so close to the City/Suburbs. That there was a vibrant human presence here even before the Nation was established and should continue to be part of our heritage. The ---- are a reminder of the people who lived in the area centuries before it was settled by immigrants (ie, most of the US). About Petrography. It opens our eyes to the past people who resided here, ---- respect for Native people and history. Historical and scenic. Connected us with history of ancient peoples who first lived here. To show us about previous cultures. Spectacular vegetation and indigenous historical significance. Preserving history is awesome. Native Indian Heritage. So unique. The National significance is to show us and teach us about events that happened before the coming of most of our ancestors. Historical. Preserving this site was very important to keeping this culture alive and the right American thing to do for the native American.  Loved it and all National Parks. The petroglyphs which tell us of many civilizations, and the scenic beauty of the canyons and small volcano's. It's a site that has important history and cultural value. To acknowledge significant land forms in our nation, both locally and nationally. That we have predecessors who valued and lived on this land.  We should do the same. Preservation of petroglyphs. Incredible history of the original inhabitants of the Albuquerque area. Really takes you back to the past. Very significant, feel visitor center should ---- ---- when 100 degree.  Should be check in and check out at ----. Preservation and education. It preserves historically significant artifacts of the ancient civilization of the Southwest. It represents the history of America before Europeans have.  Important for all! The petroglyphs are concrete evidence of the native people who lived here in the past. Great collection of petroglyphs! To protect ----. Pueblo culture, protect petroglyphs, learn about history, safe visit, and very nice rangers at VC. Lectures-very good. Protect petroglyphs! To help us understand other cultures and learn how they relate to us. A window into a past culture.  An opportunity to learn more about ancient people. Preserving historical site of educating people about Native history and culture. Priceless. Prehistoric America's artistic and cultural expressions (petroglyphs)."
274,Montezuma Castle NM,MOCA,"Preservation of our history. Preservation of history. Shows Pueblo culture. Significant. Part of the history of the ---- people. The age of castle and the ability to preserve it. Historical traditional respect. It is a wonderful piece of our history. High!  It's great to see evidence of how people lived in the past. Yes, it's important. Learning more about the history of our country. It's really cool to see architecture that has survived so long. Native history. The history of early peoples of area is interesting to learn about. Yes. Helping to preserve history/culture. Look at different culture and life style. Preserves the history of native peoples so we understand those that came here before us. The history and culture. Very important to preserve the Native Am. Heritage. Provides information on the historic and diverse culture of Indian living. Shows the history of those that proceeded most (if not all Europeans). This was very informative. Provides an insight into the history of the land. Arizona history. Historical ---- History of AZ and it's people/heritage. Indian culture. It's important to preserve the history of our state and the people that were here before us. Our historical heritage. Our history. This park provides a new perspective of culture through the ages. Path of settlements and hiking trails of the ancient people. Explains our heritage. There is a significant cultural importance for learning about how native people's lived. Seeing how the people's priority was food for their families. Pavement. 0 Telling of history. Part of U.S. history and culture. Education. Study of our past. History. Ancient ---- ----. Exhibiting authentic and osculate history of the Indigenous people. Cultural. Indian housing. Retention of our native American history. The intelligence of the native people. Preservation of native Am. history-sites-understanding of geographic evolution from such amazing visual perspective. Heritage. History and preservation. Preservation of native American history in the southwest. Culture. Kids loved the Jr. Ranger program.  Great kept them entertained age 3 and 9. History of past peoples appreciated. History-nature. Maintaining the castle for future generations. Priceless!!! Remember the people living here and theirs legacy to humanity. Indian heritage is very important. Maintain history of the native people. Nature, history, botanical. Cultural heritage. Learn about the Natives. Very important to American and Native history.  Happy to see it being preserved.  Also enjoyed the Native flute music. Indication of U.S. history before 1500 AD. The culture of the Southwest. Historic Native Cultures. Native American/Indigenous Culture.  Heritage. Preservation of culture and history.  Ranger Anne's talk was perfect. Respecting hard work. Historical and geological significance. Brings you back to a society that existed just like ours but people who just had only nature to ---- with. History of our land/Country.  Great to have a landmark preserved of what happened so long ago. Exactly this. History. It is important and very interesting. Part of our heritage. The ancient history of our Country-shown with ---- ----. The history of our ancestors and their way of survival. The history of the culture. Ways of living in the past cultures. Wonderful it was preserved.  Thanks Teddy! To better understand our complete past. Preserving the history of ancient civilizations for future generations. Culture, civilization, history. History.  Nature. Opportunity to see cliff dwellings close to Phoenix and have canyon de chelloy. Our history is significant. Restoration and upkeep for generations to come. Enlightens visitors the historical richness of the area and raises awareness of the lives of Natives before Europeans raped alleged and US ---- culture. The history and culture. To discover things I didn't know. 0 Amazing. Education, beauty and ----. History of this Country that can never be duplicated. It gives me a fuller sense of my heritage and those who came before. It is important to learn more about how the inhabitants survived in these conditions. It preserves part of our history and Indian culture. Redefining history taught to older generations. To educate us on the culture of different tribes. Monument preservation/culture. Forgotten ways of live. Very high to learn and understand Native Culture. Because it is interesting and part of our heritage. Heritage, life style, history, super cool. Historical preservation. Historical value; loved it! History. Indian history. Interesting. It was beautiful-I enjoyed the small Museum/history notes inside. The eye of this Park and the history of the people hold importance and ---- human evolution. Way of life in the past. Yes. It represents the past and can be used as a learning tool for all Americans and foreign visitors. Education of historical culture.  Reading about plants and medical herbs used. It's significance lies in preserving our  history. To let every one se how the Native people lived. Nice walk ways, nice view points, great explanations. Very high-I love to see how native Americans lived. Learning about the history of the area. Cultural significance and appreciation. Very significant. Recognition of earlier cultures of life styles.  Indigenous peoples development. Historic. History. History. Show how life was lived. It is a shining example of a simple life and the value of any using what is needed not wanted. The ---- of a society.  Farming, hunting, fishing and family struggles. History of our country! Beautiful scenery. Cultural heritage. It is well preserved window into Arizona's history. Our knowledge of Indian ancestry. Historical information. Indian heritage. Yes!  Restroom lowered rating. Horror and acknowledge ---- peoples. Early native people dwellings and area. Heritage our people. I think it holds significance to the nation and to help educate people on the culture. Preserve history and cultural heritage of the indigenous people. Indigenous historical relevance to ---- AZ U.S.  Sustains which native historical value. Preserve the integrity of the castle. It's our nation's history! Great park. How our lives began. Interesting, different culture. It shows ancient history, it's good to feel the ---- of this country. Yes-all of them! It helps us understand how humans before us lived. Historical. Great. Heritage. History. Most important. Native American cultural significance, community, unity. Of huge importance but small in size. Pre-history USA. Preservation of culture/history. The experience is priceless. Very important. Very significant.  It amazing quality of workmanship. Historical. Interesting. Teaches us our history.  We need that. The learn the evolution of the Native American inhabitants. Historical perspective of past cultures.  Appreciation of history. Historic site. Our law makers in Washington must support our parks or be FIRED! Cultural resource. Our historic legacy. Historic understanding of native culture. Preserving history-not forgetting. Six hundred years of society is important history! Obvious. Seeing the past-our roots. Assist in remembering history of the West. Maintain history. Helping you to remember, reflect upon the past. History of the indigenous people who lived here helps us to understand current lives and behavior. Understanding and learning more about Native Americans. Very good. Ancient dwelling. The audio at Castle Diorama had the most time spent and crowds.  useful! Heritage of the native people. Preserve ancient customs. Preserves the history of this U.S. and our neighbors, the American Indians. Great. Native people living/life/dwellings. Shows us how people lived in this part of area. Very. Cultural/historic. Connection to other indigenous cultures in SW United States and Mexico. Historical, cultural, sociological. This shows an important culture that is the root of our country. Historical/cultural. Of great significance and historical/educational value. High value. Historical. History of the indigenous people. Second time, won't be last. This park preserves our history-succeeding where schools too often fail. Retaining heritage education. Showing Native American artifacts and cultures. Preserve Native American history/culture.  Reminder of the beauty and amazing smell!) of nature. We got many good pictures of Montezuma Castle. History of pre-U.S.. Education. Incredible significance.  We need to make sure Congress continues to adequately fund our national parks, monuments, et al.. Keeping history alive. Native heritage. Seeing trees and flowers. To preserve history. To show history of communities in the past. Understanding country's cultural history-fantastic. Great. Illustrating the importance of protected natural spaces. Indigenous heritage. Preservation of history. Very! To get a look at the patrimony of this area, to understand how people traditionally lived in and managed the land. Learning about culture and history. Another Indian dwelling found. Preservation of history and culture."
275,Craters of the Moon NM,CRMO,"The geological structure is amazing and unique.  Love the info. about the park's history. Shows people the geology of their (the) country.  Makes you aware of our geologic history. It shows us significant geological changes and forces over the years and how human interaction affects the various formations. Volcanic terrain and caves. Unique geologic landscape. Unique geology. Weird landscape, teenager thought it was ""cool."" That it is so old and that the astronauts trained here. Educational about nature preservation, wildlife, past (history), volcanic past of the earth. Great learning resource interesting natural feature. Preserving the unique nature of this area. Study the way earth was created. Geologic diversity of USA, Indian use of land. Geologic fix, and or trail. Unique geological features. The lava beds are so unique to the US and should be preserved. Provides an excellent site for understanding the geological processes at work, especially the concept of the ""rift"" throughout the region. Part of our geological history. Geological. The uniqueness of the lava field.  Nowhere else like it. It is unique, a walk on another planet.  I have never been anywhere like it.  Its value is that it shows us how the earth was made and continues to change even now! The lava beds-no other location in the contiguous forty-eights states.  The caves were wonderful to explore.  Maybe a little stronger warning for those of us who are older! Explains the long-term geologic events that have shaped southern Idaho and Wyoming/Montana-very interesting how volcanoes have migrated across the continent. Very beautiful Park. Preserving the history of the land to share with future generations is SO valuable. To educate population of natural history.  Preserve history for future generations. Lava Flows. Geological history, lava tubes. Preserving this unique landscape. The significance of the Eruption of a Volcano long ago help understands the past and to the moon walking, etc. Educational. Unique landscape, geology. National Treasure. There is much more to see here than I knew about.  We wish we had more time to see everything. Landscape and diversity of Volcanic activity. Uniqueness. How many lava flows  are there in the world?  Save it! That it is available to offer educational experience to grow in appreciation of our planet and care for it. Great info about the trails very informative. Rare opportunity to see such beauty. It shows Volcanic activity at a time period other Parks do not. Cool part of history that shows how our ---- earth was made. How much of our land has formed and how nature regenerates itself. The Caves. See geography, nature, science. Geologic explanation of the development of Idaho. It's neet to see what nature creates. Learning about geography of Idaho. One of a kind and very worth preservation. Preserving natural geography. The fact that we can still view where the Volcanic Molten Lava has hardened. Unique geologic formations. Very significant. Really impressive opportunity to check out lava flow. (We) I think it's a National Treasure. Eastern Idaho-Yellowstone.  Geology. Excellent for geological understanding. History natural beauty. It has a lot of educational information.  You get to see nature for itself and respect. Preserves interesting geological features. Proof of Volcanic Eruption. To teach people about nature how the earthy came to be as part of nature. Walking into caves, life (animals/plants) in area. Yes, shows the great diversity in geology and U.S. history. Gives a good idea about what happened in our earth's history. National history of this area. Unique landscapes, and nature only found in rare locations (pretty views). Fascinating geological remnant. Geology and ----. How our country has been found is a precious asset geological formations. Preserving geological and first nations history. The beauty and unusual rock formations. We enjoy being able to learn and teach our children. Make a waiver available to climb on the lava. Scientifically essentially for us all to visit and learn about.  I am an educator and did not know about this national park until the summer.  Environmentally. Very ----. It's beautiful nature. Education and preservation of natural resources. Unique geology. It's a geological significance and a historical one. Very interesting and worthy of preservation. The park service is the only reason I pay taxes. Very cool park that teaches us about the geological history of America. The lava. Preserve, protect, educate. Education of geology and for the significance it's had on the nation. Unique geography, kids loved the caves.  Lava in Idaho...who would have known. The rich geologic history of this nation. Conservation, wildlife. Geological, and cultural history. To preserve our country's natural beauty. Very unique. Volcanic studies. Beautiful volcanic landscape, very unique and interesting geologic history-basalt in Idaho? Everyone should see it-so different from other parks. The geology, history and pure esthetic value. Yes. Teaches about volcanic wonders and the earth's formation.  Excellent geology. Our nature in process. To protect nature. Uniqueness of landscape-history of volcano. Very unique geography.  This is the type of place that could be bull dozed and paved over and all would be lost forever. It's uniqueness as volcanic lava flow. Learning about lava flows, geology, enjoying the outdoors. Lava flows are unique and not like any found anywhere else. The educational value and standards of this park reflects our great nation which unfortunately is in danger of deterioration. It is a natural wonder, breath taking landscape. There's no place else like that anywhere! The unique landscape due to the volcanic activity that occurred in that region. Great educational opportunity on geology and the power of nature. It's history and the way it formed is part of geographical history and shows the way the earth works. The preservation of a fragile ecosystem for education and enjoyment. Unique geologic features. To learn about volcanoes. Beauty and unique opportunity to see results of volcanic activity such as spatter cones and lava tubes.  Education and inspiring! Geological history. This Park is our history and provides an enjoyable and highly educational experience for people of all ages.  This Park is a gem. Seeing the lava tubes and caves. Especially useful to tour this park before visiting Yellowstone, to grasp idea of tectonic plate movement. It is exceptional.  Thank goodness it is being preserved for future generations. There aren't many places like this.  It shows how the land was formed. Helps to inform people about volcanoes and the geological formations. The expansive amount of volcanic activity. Moderate significance to nation.  Good attraction for travelers in central Idaho."
276,Lyndon B. Johnson NHP,LYJO,"Enjoyed the tour of President Johnson's and Lady Bird Johnson's home.  It was an inside look into a president who served at a most difficult time. To show how human the President was family man. History and legacy of LBJ Presidency. Wanted to see and learn more about the pictures of family and friends. Important to know history of civil rights legislation and all LBJ did to move America forward. LBJ's influence. Extremely important from historical stand point. Gives insight into the lives of a President and his family. Amount of time spent at ranch by sitting president and impact of ranch on him/nation (holding meetings, etc. Our nation was fundamentally altered her the better because of LBJ's Presidency. The presidential legacy. Part of Presidential history. That LBJ conducted business from here. History of our presidency. MOST SIGNIFICANT we need to have an appreciation for history. President. View a time period-learn about what went on and the people. A wonderful part of our history. History and significance Lyndon Johnson made to Texas and the US. It shows me what type of man LBJ was and how much work he did here. Very important. The life of LBJ and his home. Represents a President of our USA.  His personal bio and other info. I thought it was excellent.  ---- ---- have been much longer. Historical. LBJ and Lady Bird's legacy and history and the significance of their lives in the story of America. To promote the legacy of LBJ and Lady Bird. Appreciate seeing ""the man"" as well as the President-we need to see our leaders as real people-not objects of our hate. A snapshot of history. Keeping alive the history of a very important person in American history. Group too LARGE, felt rushed. Understanding LBJ and the historical period he served this country. It's our history! Appreciate the look at the life of real people. History and Texas culture. History of ex President Johnson. LBJ's service particularly ---- turbulent times of the 60's. Truly a great insight into LBJ and Lady Bird. Wonderful view into history ""humanizes LBJ and presidential life. Wonderful, beautiful, great guide, Aaron. Most important-the human reflection on a great President. Texas white house (only). To educate younger generations of the importance of knowing about our history. Insight into the times of LBJ from part of view of him.  Excellent! LBJ me of the most important Presidents. Very important, every school age child should be made to come here.  Especially (Texas) students. LBJ's ranch was here where he did most of his Presidential work. This is a very valuable piece of history. Fascinating view of LBJ at home. Great historical values. The history of a leader, ---- back ground. It was really interesting to learn first hand about the use of the ranch as the White House. LBJ house. LBJ's home and Texas white house. To show the contributions of LBJ and to show his dedication to the U.S. Educational. Established a personal relationship with history. Greater insight into LBJ and the much of government. Historical due to Presidential connection. Historical. History of LBJ and the 60's reaching in Texas, environmental protection. I feel like the park is a time capsule and is ideal for helping illustrate LBJ's life and times to high school student. Life of LBJ. To learn about the ""man"" not just the President. Understanding the historical contributions of the President and his family. Very educational-good history review. Very important.  Very ---- maintaining. We need to remember.  Thank you. Allows people to step back in time and enjoy seeing the political processes. As significant as a Presidential library.  Gave a very indepth view of 36th Pres. Historic preservation. Honors our President. Life of Lyndon. Living history.  Served as an extra term of the White house. National history.  Our children need to see how things were done before all phones, email, internet. President history. To pass on to younger generations the significance of our history (and explain about rotary phones!) To understand the past. Very important part of American history. Very important.  So much I didn't remember! Very significant historically. Historical. Educational. 0 Home of one of our greatest Presidents during an awful time in our history. It make LBJ a person, not just a president. Remembrance of President Johnson, his family and lifestyle. Excellent ---- of our history. Very historic presidential home. Very impressive-his legislative ---- ARE AMAZING thank you LBJ. Historical and educational. Preserve and educate. This park is significant because it demonstrates much historical information of President Johnson. A capsule of history and view into private lifestyle of one of America's greatest statesmen! History of the 1950 and 60's. How much our great servants are able to live as they please and just as normal as those they serve. It showed how a past president lived-where he was at home and was more human to us. For the ---- to be aware of the ---- of LBJ and Lady Bird, and the fact that he wanted the world to know ----. Another view of one of our presidents mades the president ""real"" person and indicates/supports his ""agenda"". History very important. It embodies the legacy of the LBJ Presidency and subsequent contributions of Mrs Johnson and the family. LBJ was a 'regular' person and President. The ranch is proof. Preserve history/significance of location teams and white house. Presidential home. Significant historical events occurred ----. Tell us about a presidents life ---- it in ----. The importance of the history of the people who lived here and the way their lives changed history. To keep history alive and inform future generations. Loved it. Very interesting-friendly beautiful spot!! Wonderful treasure of a great U. S. president. Absolutely loved it. Have been have several times and always learn new tidbits. As a Texan/educator great. Home of US President. Important decisions of policies made here. LBJ's significance as a substantial world leader. Love the history! Preservation and beauty. Preserving history for future generations. Very educational and interesting to learn about the history. Very important Worth the time. Very informative and we would recommend a visit. Helps tell an important part of our nations history and to put President and Mrs. Johnson's role in it's proper perspective. Jari our guide was exceptional a very enthusiastic and knowledgeable person. The Western made house during the ---- LBJ was president. Summer White House. Very educational. Greater insight into President Johnson. Background of ""man of the people"" president. Important to see a president humble beginnings and his connection to the land. LBJ Ranch provided a glimpse into a key part of our Nation's history.  Loved it. It's great to see the legacy of LBJ and the foundations from which he came. We had a fantastic tour from Mike Ryan well worth the trip. History. Historic significance, better understanding of the president and his family. Excellent view of life in the hill country and knowledge of President Johnson and his life. Western White House. A view of how LBJ's presidency operated. LBJ and Lady bird's legacies. The legacy of LBJ getting to know the man in a personal way. History. Essential for understanding our government and history of our nation. Change opinion of Johnson-not just Vietnam War. Education. That it perpetuates the memory of LBJ. This park give us a picture of our past and reminds us of the pressures and importance of life as a president. To educate about LBJ: professional and personal life, how we effected our lives for the better; and his family's lives. To experience a living history of a great presidency for all legislation enacted. Very enjoyable and educational. Gives a new light on LBJ. history of one of our presidents. History, today's politics and farm/ranch life. Keeping history alive. Texas ranching. The history of the president and the role he played in presidency.  History of lady bird and her commitment to LBJ. The Park provides a unique perspective on one of our more significant presidents. To me, it's about connection of family and nature in a time of great turmoil suffering and loss, but one of our greatest growth periods. To preserve the history of LBJ and family-thank you! To see how presidents and their families lived away from the White house. US History. How the gov. looked at things that people needed and how they acted compared to politicians now. Life and times of Pres. Very significant.  More young people need to know about the life and significance of this President. History of a Pres. and family. An opportunity to see the human side of a President. LBJ legacy specifically for those who were not alive during his time frame. A tribute to a President, a way of life and U.S. history. Shows the compassion and the selfless abilities of Lyndon Johnson.  Very important President! Education. So important to let Americans know what how welcoming we are. Fine example of ""current"" generations-technology early, etc. How busy the life of LBJ was back then with limited communication, telephone and TV.  Now is overwhelming. That President was a mans man, very generous in assuming his house to officials in --- country and from other countries. A very personal and up close education about LBJ, his life, work, and time.  Thank you for maintaining this beautiful place. An important part of American history. Historical record of content of LBJ Presidency. History lives on for all generations. It is a part of our history and we think it is very significant. It is important to preserve the history of our Country. L.B.J. did great things and the world should be reminded-war and ----. The legacy of LBJ-understanding his presidency and the childhood influence on  his personal development. Educational, our heritage. Texas ""White House"" of Pres. L B Johnson. LBJ was among our greatest Presidents. LBJ President. The people who were here and what they did. Presidential history. The history-natural beauty. Getting to know the President and his family. It brings to life as a human being a President who was not always appreciated. Good guide. Teaching the legacy of LBJ. It preserves the history of that era (1960's). Legacy of LBJ and Lady Bird. Makes people aware of the many accomplishments of President Johnson. Ability to view the culture, community, and actual articles assisted with Pres. Johnson. It shows the heritage of one of our nation's Presidents and given insight into his life before, during and after his Presidency. Home of President and family learned more about history. Impressive that the ranch was donated to preserve history. High importance-shares a period of time in our heritage many youth don't learn about anymore. History of a President and family.  Southern culture. History, appreciation for natural resources, preservation. History. How country was seen. LBJ ranch. Memorial to LBJ and Lady Bird. President's ---- place great idea. To remember LBJ's years in the White House. LBJ-Lady Bird and her legacy. Beautiful park. Educations the public about the Johnson family. Give a personal view of Johnson's life and what he did for America. Historical, beautiful. In my opinion; I continues to instill a great sense of pride among our Texan culture. LBJ, example of 1950's-60's ranch and home. Preserving a piece of history. Quarter of Presidency happened here. The amount of history that I didn't know. Yes not much about the 60 this filled in some blanks. Historical ---- and place where influencial policies were decided. Important and educational-odds to our understanding. A good idea of LBJ's life. Historical perspective. Remembrance of a President and great ----. The historical value is incredible.  Very interesting to learn about the man and his family and not just the President. It helps us better understand the life of a president. This park is significant because this is where a major president lived and died. Lyndon Johnson was one of the most important Presidents.  His story needs to be told.  This is a great facility for that. The significance of the Texas White House. Very significant. History. Presidential history. Excellent because the house is original and add decorations. Access to history which made our country. Contributes to the history of a critical era in US history. Great history. Presidential history. To show the significance of the Texas White House. History. History lesson. History. LBJ was great president, the park points out many positive aspects of his presidency that need to be remembered. Understanding of history-I agree that governing can happen anywhere and can be re-established quickly. A must for US citizens to understand our history and our leaders as people/human beings. Wonderful to share in the experience where a president spent 25% of his time during his administration. I learned so much more about LBJ! and Ladybird.  My first visit (I think) to a state park and it was so interesting! The historical importance."
277,President William Jefferson Clinton Birthplace Home NHS,WICL,"History. Shows where from humble beginnings a president was born. Show a small town boy can become president. It was very interesting to see President Clinton's first home and learn more about his early life. The birth place of President Clinton. The birth place of our president, connects to the person of the president. Yes, very powerful man in our US history. Highlight birth home of President Clinton. It's important to know the history of our Presidents. This park is important because it is important to know the history of our 42nd president. Very important to preserve this house. Back ground on Clinton which is wonderful. Clinton history. Learning history of Pres. Clinton. Important in political background of Clinton's continuation to the United States. History of a President. The parks shows us how a kids from average family and difficulties in life can be successful and a President. The birthplace of a president-humble roots yielded a great man. The birth place of the 42nd Pres.   The opportunity to visit and see where he came from. ---- was a president!  Of course that's significant! Birth place of a past president of US. Bill Clinton. American history ties us all together. Importance of President Clinton in our nation's history. Presidential Birth home. The history and importance of President Clinton's life. This park to me signifies the importance of dedication and that no matter how you started off, you can be successful. Educational. Educate and let people explore president Clinton's legacy.  Inspire the future generations. ---- Historical. Very good for education. Generally interested in Clinton.  Loved his Pres. Library! To help us learn about our former President life as a child. To make history seem real and impart knowledge of U.S. President's background. Honors the legacy of a U.S. President. Important. The education about Bill Clinton. Birthplace of a president we enjoyed.  The banners telling us about Clinton's life.  The rose garden is very pretty. Our President birthplaces are important to our history and to show the President was a ""regular"" person.  I miss Bill!! Nice stop.  Everyone very friendly and helpful. Knowing of the young life of a recent President. Presidential information important from history to help for future generations. President Clinton's birthplace. The historical ---- family enjoy ---- history ---- alive. Gave better insight into President and is background. Home to my favorite president. It is the birthplace of Bill Clinton. Presidential childhood home. Birthplace and influence on our President. Birthplace. Family oriented and education. That we had a great president who help improve the ----, lower the nation's debt and treated everyone equally. The birthplace of my favorite President in history. Very important. Presidents birthplace. Birth place of Clinton. Presidential history-great that it is available for public to ----. Sight seeing President Clinton home place. To remember our presidents. Family importance-as well as education.  Loved seeing what he valued growing up. Educational. Need a parking lot for visitors. I love the beauty of the landscape places to sit and enjoy nature. Loved the tour!  Guide did an excellent job. To understand more fully the birthplace of a president. It is very significant due to the importance of learning about our former President. History. It is important to see where our leaders come from.  It gives valuable insight into how they are shaped and why they might make the choices they make. Important to know the history of our US Presidents and impact on our country. Shows early influences on a great President. Historical/presidential/American history. Humble childhood home of recent president. The first home of President Clinton. It's always very moving to see where our leaders come from.  It inspires me to believe we can all be great! Bill Clinton's birth place.  Under construction but very interesting Ranger Station displays info. I love being able to see parts of history in my State. Very significant.  Nice to have a house where a modern and down to earth President lived. President's house. Historical. Birth place of a President. Presidential birth place. Nice Park. My Father-In-Law is a big history buff. To provide historical information regarding President Clinton. 0 Birth place of an American President. The President's home was closed.  Why come? To educate and appreciate where someone comes from and what helped develop their character. Bill Clinton home (childhood).  Learning how a yours boy from a small town became president. People can connect their president to his early roots. Home of a former president. History-very informative. Bill Clinton was a great president from meager means in a tiny town the park signifies this. Embodies the truth that anyone, regardless of origins, can become president of the United States. It's always great to see where people's stories begin. Important in that it provides background of one of America's presidents. History should preserved. Important to know the history of past presidents. Bring that Clinton was a past president that makes him a significant part of our history. I think it is important to highlight places like Hope.  They are important to the fabric of the US and showing people how life is different for their home states. Learning about President Clinton, life and childhood. History. Very important. Bill Clinton was born here. Birth place of a US president. It is a great example of the American dream.  It is amazing to see how you can be president from Hope Ark! History. Its history. Thanks for keeping it ----.  It's history!! Learning about Bill is fascinating. The history of Bill Clinton (president). Our president (former) history-birthplace is ---- for today. His birthplace.  Info on bill. I learned Clinton has goat. President birth place. Presidents are important-all stories have value-We enjoyed the visit. Home of president. It signifies the life of President Clinton and his values that he shared with the citizens of the USA. It's important to remember where our presidents come from. Birth spot of one of my favorite presidents.  It's interesting to see where he grew up."
278,Pu'uhonua o Honaunau NHP,PUHO,"It is extremely unique in the world as an historical site. The history and the Hawaiian ancestors and the stories the park provides. In learning about the settlement of the Hawaiian Islands, who lived here, how they lived and how they managed with volcanic rock. Great Hawaiian history for a refuge from death. Hawaiian history, Kapu. To inform people of Hawaii is culture. Keep picnic area open later. 0 History of the Hawaiians and Society was significant. Awesome stonewall, temple. Lot of history. Preserved the Hawaiian culture. Site of royal residences and ""place of refuge"". Very high, huge historical significance to the island. Lots of history-Kapu-cultural. Hawaiian history, kapy. Elemental. Big wall, temple. Historical/cultural significant. Historical/cultural significance. Learning about Hawaiian culture. The connection to the Hawaiian culture and the beautiful serene picnic area as well as the trails. Strong Hawaiian culture.  Cultural diversity. Pu'uhonua.  Kapu system. Preservation of Hawaiian culture and practices. Remember history, preserve culture. Geographic-creates land mass.  Culturally-significance to native Hawaiians and their God Pele. Help maintain knowledge of Hawaiian culture. This park is a wonderful reminder of the spirituality of the Hawaiian people and provided a glimpse into their unique heritage.  It was a great experience. It is important for Hawaiian culture to see the historical significance of the Pu'uhorua. Understanding Native Hawaiian culture and history. Significant to Hawaii not particularly to ""USA"" but does give an insight into Hawaiian culture. It teaches Hawaiian history and culture. It is important to learn about the history of the different people that make up our nation. Different cultural aspect for punishment. I think it's important to have the ---- exhibit innovative informative-much more so than videos can. The park gives a glimpse on Hawaiian history and shows the real structure of the ----.  Shoreline that is kept as natural as it has been. Great to see the structures, building style only suggestion is more info in writing and signs. An area to learn more about the Hawaiian history. Preservation of a culture. Preserving the culture without European influence. Preserving the past, the beauty, and the peace of our nation. Hawaiian history. History of natives. It preserves the natural beauty and history of the islands original inhabitants. Learn about HI. The park does a great job of providing insight into Hawaiian history and culture. History and are we on the right track for the future of our country. To honor and educate people about the native people and culture of Hawaii. I think it's a good significance of the nation in this park. Important history. Hawaiian history. It shows the forgiveness and renewal of the culture. It is very important to tell the story of the island and its culture so that it does not disappear. Very interesting. Extremely significant, especially because so many people forget Hawaii is part of the U.S., but has its own historical uniqueness. It serves to inform and educate the nation of what would be a culture forgotten. The self-guided tour was very well done and the sacredness of the grounds was moving. Our nation is made of all different cultures, religions and people, and we should understand each other.  This type of park promotes this. Historical protection of the culture of the Polynesian people. To remind our citizens that we have many histories. Very important to know. Preserving heritage. The history, the nature, the piece of tranquility. Historical preservation. Preserving and educating about the ---- and history and culture. Excellent feel of ancient culture, customs and history. Cultural heritage of native Hawaiians. Display of Hawaiian culture. Feel for how Hawaii was years ago. This park is more interesting than other historical parks. This park is more interesting then most parks. To help people understand the history of the Hawaiian culture and history. ---- ---- ----. Great ----, ---- ----/ Hawaiian history and culture, beautiful area, preserved. Hawaiian history, Kopin ----./ Preserve/present aspects of pre European Hawaii culture. Hawaiian culture and history. It is a sacred ground. History-----. To learn about the people who established a village here at this location. It shows the culture of Hawaii. Big wall-KAPU-temple. Save the historical history of Big Island. Preserve Hawaiian history. Uniting Hawaii state to the rest of the nation. Culture experience. Part of Hawaiian culture. Kapu. Big Wall-temple site. Excellent preservation of history. Historic culture of Hawaii. To preserve the heritage. Hawaiian history-Kapu system. Scooby-Dan Tiki Story is how we all learned about Hawaiian Tikis.  More stories relating the true Native legends to pop culture would be great. Lots of history. Showing history of the native people and their culture. It allows Americans to know more about the culture of the people who originally lived here and lets Hawaiian's know we are sorry finally saw them! To learn about Hawaiian culture. Help save Hawaiian's culture and history. Preservation of Hawaiian culture. Keep the history of the native Hawaiian culture alive. Hale ----, great wall, Kapu. To learn about the navigational process of the first Hawaiians and to learn about their culture and way of life. Very important in telling the history of Hawaii and understanding the sacredness of the land. It helps visitors visualize how the island was before Western civilization came.  Without these places, the islands would be just another beach resort. How the original Hawaiians came to the islands and set up committees and government. Cultural history, yes it needs to be preserved. Very important to keep Hawaiian culture available. History and culture of the native Hawaiian and the inclusive nature of American pluralism and secular society. Preservation of historic places important to Hawaiian culture. Historical/cultural preservation. To continue to preserve our heritage for future generations and to teach everyone about our history. Upon exiting the car, one can immediately feel the serenity, tranquility of the park, which reflects the right history of the area.  This park to me is the one of it's most significant places in ---- to experience the history. Hawaiian culture. Preservation of history of Hawaii-very educational. Preserving Hawaiian culture and historical site.  Contributes to our American heritage. House of ----, Kapu system. To preserve and promote the significance of the local culture and traditions both past and present. Kapu system and Hawaiian history. Great wall, Kapu system. Feels the story before colonization. Remember the past. The park is wonderful for grown ups but less accessible to elementary school age kids. Hawaiian culture. The only place of ----, keeping the Kapu ---- ----. Traditional presentation. To understand and preserve the Hawaiian history and culture. Great wall and ---- ---- ----. It shows the history of Hawaii and provides hands on learning. Historical grounds are sacred. Royalty is not common to us citizens. Source of learning, recreating national history. Kapu system and ----. Well worthwhile experience. Cultural understanding and appreciation. Preserving Hawaiian culture and educating others about it. Very unique.  I have been here about 4 times.  First time 12 years ago, I think.  I will return, I hope. It's good, need more staff to show. Kapu system and Hawaiian way of life. ---- History. It is important to document the history. Kapu system-preservation. The park is significant to Hawaiian culture and learning about people who have a culture outside of the USA. I could feel the Mana and Aloha when I was at the Kohana Pakaukau, across a worthy opponent. All it's items are very significant and very helpful to all. All parks in our nation are of great significance to me and my family.  They all have good value. Cultures presentation of Hawaiian religion. Great wall, ---- ---- ----. History. It demonstrates history and culture and is a great learning experience. The historical significance to Hawaiian history/culture. Very significant to history.  Good recreational alternative to snorkeling.  Hope it stays open! This park shows an essential element of a culture that is part of this nation.  It needs MORE funding for programs and staff! Understanding of local history and gaining an appreciation of it. The need of remembering the origins and the diversity of a nation.  How diversity is a strength and opportunity in the people of a nation. Learning about the history and purpose of ---- ----. The history behind it and what it symbolizes. Learning about Hawaiian culture. Educating people about Hawaiian culture. Important historical place of ----. Wendy the ranger there was extremely helpful and kind.  This park gave me insight into ancient Kingdom and spirituality. A look into the life and cultural morays of the Native islanders. Hawaiian culture/history preservation. To preserve the Hawaiian history and custom. The park captures the cultural heritage of the Native people.  It seems that there is a focus on the general cultural history rather than the specific significant. Learn about 700 year old culture and Hawaiian history. It keeps open Hawaii in New Hawaii.  Allows to learn about 100 year culture. Cultural history. History and the natural beauty. To showcase the history and tradition of the old religion and Kapu system. To show the Kapu system. A sacred place to the Hawaiian people.  The site is unique and very special. Kapu system. To learn about the lives of Native Hawaiians and the ancient traditions in their culture. Historical-culture of first peoples in Hawaii. Historic/preservation of sacred ground. Kapu system, refuge from consequences only?  Du' uhonua left in Hawaii. Kapu system. To preserve the cultural significance and educate others on why the place of refuge is valuable to Hawaiian culture. Very nice park.  We will be back. Learning of the Hawaiian culture. This was/is a living history example of a prominent, pre-contact location (and sacred). History of the Hawaiian natives and their religious beliefs/foundation. I would like to know what purpose for this heiau was established.  History, role, and ceremony were held at ----. Area of education of Hawaiian history and culture. Learning about Hawaiian history and culture and keeping it alive. This park is significant because it is honoring a national sight of historical and cultural value. Preserving Kapu and significant spiritual places. To preserve the great heritage and culture and educate people of the early Hawaiian people. To bring awareness of the rich culture of the native people. To learn about Hawaiian culture and preserved the beauty of it. Preservation of Hawaiian cultures and site for learning about traditions. The life of the Hawaiian people. Heritage. All temple sites. It gives a glimpse of the olden days and recreates the magic. History. Ancient Hawaiian culture maintained and taught to generations. Hawaiian cultural awareness. To learn more about Hawaiian heritage and culture. We find it's great value.  We wouldn't missed it."
279,Oregon Caves NM,ORCA,"It has an amazing river in the caves. In my opinion the ---- is a one of a kind. Ovegou Caves is a geological treasure. Lover tour.  BUT GREAT need for more handrails near stairs and better lighting at cave displays. This park has a historical value, which is greatly important. Must see-tops. Huge-unique-accessible. Education, natural resources, history. Amazing! Great. Rare beautiful sights. Preservation of a beautiful natural resources. It's natural development and beauty. Outstanding; well documented important to understand the littered ground on which we live, certainty of science. The history of the cave formation and some of the science behind it was interesting to learn. One of the few caves available to the Oregon public. It's a great spot to see a large variety of what to see in a cave. National history. Priceless. To share the beauty of the park. Educational/geology. Preservation for future generation. The caves. Nice trails. Preservation of an incredible cave and space for wild things. Shows beauty-nature-and the need for a preservation of our land. The cave's are very significant. Trails and caves. It's important because they take care of the park and so people can see it too. Interacting ---- with nature. It is a natural wonder to be shared with all.  The knowledge potentially gained can turn some one into thinking differently about our planet. Geological history. National parks are important for future generations. The historic value of it.  The scenic value below ground. Love and respect for our earth. New insight to study the fossils revolutionized studies. Nature and happiness. Very unusual cave. Beautiful and unique historical caves with smart rangers and informative services. Unique species. It's America! Preserve of natural resource. Natural beauty unspoiled. Natural wonder of the cave. Great way to explore parts of our country. Freedom of exploration. The educational aspect of it holds significance to the nation. To give everyone the chance to explore this wonder. Learning the history of the parks services, and to respect natural formation and sensitive ecosystems. A fun tourist destination. Preserving a natural wonder and also maintaining a way for regular folks (not caves) to access and appreciate. Education of nature. The nature and natural habitats. Important habitats, archeological significance and discoveries in caves. Preserving the beauty for future generations. The caves are extremely interesting. Age, as in science.  Teaches us the age of the planet and pre-human activities. National monument. The caves. Amazing care and ecosystem ---- history. Future generations will be able to appreciate this marvelous place. Oregon history-geological value. Nature at its finest, trees, caves, water. It is preserving a fragile wonder of nature it is helping study climate change. How all of the caverns where created. Fun to learning. Exploration. The wondrous nature of innocent exploration. Gives people an opportunity explore a unique cave system,and ---- ---- system instead of it being commercialized. The caves. It was a great learning experience through the cave. A tribute to our sense of adventure. Geological diversity. A very beautiful natural scene. Preservation. Being educated about the caves. Preservation of history and nature. The cave history was very interesting, great tour. Great. Preserve a treasure which took thousands of years to form. 1 of 3 ---- caves in the US. The ranger was cool and the formations were beautiful.  This was my first cave. Irreplaceable. Geologic history, education, diversity (----, botanical, animal). As a junior ranger I have to say the caves are pretty. Education and exposure to unusual and often forgotten environments. Education of history. The caves and natural material used to build the Chateau. Preservation of eco system and animals and home of Batman. Very important to preserve this natural wonder. Amazing-we need more of this. Unique marble formations. One of a kind! Preserving natural wonders and educating about geology, etc. History and geology. An oasis in every sense!  It is well preserved in the natural environment and maintained for every age to enjoy! Old growth forests, Oregon caves, interesting history. It teaches people why we need to keep the caves safe and healthy. Caves. Such an amazing cave. Cave features and unique discovery history shows the adventurous spirit of the nation. I think the park is very important because of the caves and sharing the public. It is fun and interesting, and I'd do it again. It demonstrates both natural rock formations and its role in the history of Oregon. It is a unique space that should be protected for future generations because of the significant natural history. Sharing history and making it (recreation) accessible. Thank you Bruno. The rocks! Geological wonder. 0 Beautiful! Katie was an excellent guide. Pretty great. Natural resources are important to protect. Amazing opportunity! Important in the exploration and discovery of the area. 0 One of the few caves! Don't sell it. I feel it is important to each new generation. The diversity of geological features. To preserve the cave and natural surroundings. Our countries natural resources. The significance is that there is beauty in this country and should be appreciated. Unique geologic features. Because the caves and because the beauty. It is a lovely showcase of the history of the area. To learn! The cave was very awesome. The cave tours is very good. Being allowed to enter caves and learning about nature inside. Natural treasure, world class destination. Cave and Douglas Fir. It is very unique. Nature's great creations. We are proud of the natural beauty of our nation.  We love to celebrate the beauty of our nation. The beauty of the caves. Posterity, history, beauty. Geologic history-presentation of natural spaces. The natural geology value, pristine water ways and ---- environment. Unique natural features (cave), historic buildings. A great way to learn about geology and the natural formation of the region. Preservation of natural history w/education. The cave is very impressive. Unique cave formations. Learning about geology, seeing new sights, appreciating human impact on natural world. Good. Education about the diverse geology of the Northwest. Caves. National treasure.  I appreciate the fact it's being preserved. Good. The local history and how it pertains to this location was very well captured. Nature undeveloped land. Great tour, guide excellent, ranger Cortney great. Earth history. Geological history. Caves with unique geological and cultural value. Extremely significant to keep these parks low cost and available to the public, parts not wars. Caves. Educational place, beautiful. The caves. Unique with the marble. Preservation and education of the citizens both US and the world regarding this unique eco system. The wonder of the cave. To be able to come and enjoy a rare, preserved marble cave. Beautiful and interesting cave. Family time, beautiful area. It appears to be a living laboratory. It preserves a unique aspect of Oregon and nature! Natural history, cave preservation. Spectacular. Beautiful national resource. History. It is important to keep the natural preserves as pristine and as close to natural as possible. Natural preservation/informational. The beautiful nature. The geography is like none other, I like the different rock types. To educate through beauty and nature. To learn about our Country's history. History. It is a beautiful gem to visit. Exploration. Great opportunity to learn about Caves and their preservation. Never seen Calcite. The Cave. Unique geology, flora and fauna plus value of Park experience to users. It prompts people in our Nation to travel and see our Country. Beautiful, resourceful area that must be preserved! Rare and unusual Caves. The Cave. Up the ladder; 10 out of 10; 10 the highest. Great cultural and environmental learning, experience about this Region of the Country. Historical longevity-recognized and continued. A great opportunity to explore nature. Unique Tour through a cave. A fragment of precious geological history captured and fluently interpreted. Education regarding and preservation of Cave and surrounding area. Geological preservation and observation. The unique quality of the Cave is important to protect. Anastasia was awesome! Preserving things that happened years ago and allowing others to see and experience a part of our National not always seen. The Caves volcanic info and work done on them. The Caves. It has a very rich and worth-while history worthy of preservation. It's hard to put words to it!  Nature and these caves are invaluable in this busy world!  Coffee Shop is so wonderful! Natural History, Geology. Nature at its finest. Preservation of resources. Show the unique formation of Caves and the ability to walk throughout them. The exploring side of the people. Protect unique eco-system and area of natural wonder. Amazing. Unique Eco system to preserve the natural wonders. It's truly unique, a treasure. The diverse and unique species. It brings people to our town. Good history, importance of conservation. The cave and history. Area history, land mark ----, geologic significance. Art inspiring natural monuments. Inspiring new generations interest in nature, scenic and history, preserving our natural treasure of the caves. That would be the cave. Natural wonder. The history and what has been solidly documented.  Fascinating! It is importan to maintain the history and wonders of our nation. Unique natural features worthy of protection and public viewing. Exploration and education."
280,Petrified Forest NP,PEFO,"Protection of geological and archeological sites. Keep untouched a very special and peculiar present from nature. Very important. Gives people a chance to appreciate nature and protects plants/animals, beautifies the country. History. The exhibition of the stone logs to see. It ties us to the majesty and beauty present throughout the country and is a very educational tie to our past. It's hard t believe how much our earth/climate has changed!  The preservation of this beautiful place reminds us that we need to take care. Preserving history and education. Invaluable.  One of the top geological and historical parks. Knowledge of history. Learning about nature in more detail is the significance of this park.  I love nature and appreciate all of the national parks. The natural wonders that need protection. Amazing. Both ---- beautiful and inspirational. It is the largest ---- of petrified wood in the world. Also the history of the Indians of the area is important. Good to see that we have really good natures to enjoy and see. Learning about history. Maintaining wilderness is essential to our nation...we need grow space where we can ---- and remember to tend to our earth. Geology and culture. Important. Geology, fossil history. History. Amazing geological significance as well as social emotional recognition of our place on this amazing planet. No other park has such a large collection of petrified logs. It's beauty and it's cultural history.  This park is set up in a way that makes it very accessible to different populations. The largest of the petrified trees I have encountered. Extremely high, must be preserved. History of the world, archeology. Preserving our nation's natural beauty and cultural significance. Remnants from million years ago are being preserved. A natural treasure (and human/cultural treasure). History, geology, beauty. To preserve the national history. The store wood. History preserved. Preserving fossils, teaching geology. To preserve the land and wood for all to enjoy. ---- years of history you can see, feel, touch, wow! It preserves the natural history of our material-priceless. Preservation of a natural wonder for all. Preservation of our nations natural treasures. Preserving/viewing the petrified woods/hieroglyphics. Scenic-history. Things would no longer be here without the national park services. To keep natural area for all to see and experience. History educational information great exercise. It protects the very special place from destruction and makes it available to the public to enjoy. The awesome beauty of our nature. Very high historic significance. Conservation and preservation of a disappearing natural wonder. Teaching people that many fascinating lifeforms and geological process occurred in America long before people arrived. Also, that it was occupied for ---- History, ---- nature. Painted desert. More parks like this. History. Naive American history. To remember and realize what was here before us and to leave it for future generations.  Also to realize how amazing nature is. It's amazing! Combination of Badlands and petrified forest. Preserving the natural wonders. The history of the area as it relates to prehistoric records left behind. Displays just another of our nations diverse land areas/natural creations. Pre history, history, present. Maintain resources that are specific to this area in order to keep them available for world memories and as a training tool for those interested in this work. Preserve history. To see what life/plants existed millions of years ago. High. Petrified wood, paleontological. Pieroglyphics. To know what had happen, so many years ago. Extremely important for geological history, history of life and natural beauty. Everything-please preserve for future generations. Being able to see all the forest and the painted desert.  To enjoy the history and to pass on to future generations. It's a testimony of the park. This is a living park.  Was here in the 60's, so much new and different today including fossil history. Preservation of natural resources and cultural history. I like the fact that this type of geology is being preserved. To learn about the past. Very important. Petrified wood hikes and seeing he petryoglphs. Fantastic, historic, scenic. Saves special areas/countries past. To preserve the past and educate the public as to what it was, to show natures beauty. Very high. Preserving our environment and beauty. Extremely significant.  Rangers are critical to it's preservation. History of how the earth has been created to has changed thru time. History. It's a beautiful piece of land with amazing historical background and hyroglyphics. Nothing else like it in the US. Nothing else like it in the USA. Preserving nature and all the park has to offer. The fact that way before we became a nation and way before we were even part of the North American continent, ---- wove by a river and we can still see them. Unique historical record and education opportunity. The abundance and variety of petrified wood.  The painted desert colors. Unique, historical. Preservation and learning opportunities. Geology/archeology. Unique geology. Our history of the area. Preservation of mankind. Shows how this and country has looked before big box stores and roads. Well preserved and informative a look into the past ages. Preserving natural and historical resources. Outdoor space. Petrified wood is a rare thing.  It need to be preserved for future generations. The natural beauty. History. Fabulous representation of Desert Ecosystem and high Paleontology value. History and development of Petrified Wood, etc. Regional interest and history. The beautiful colors and sights. Painted dessert and formations are awesome and show God created it all. You see the progression of peoples and you see how God has helped them to survive. Science. Preserving nature from 250 million years ago-and its beauty. Archeology, history, beauty. To help us appreciate and therefore preserve creation. The abundance of petrified wood, it is so interesting. Petrified wood and painted desert. The history of the forest. Very good! The geology of the SW.  Transportation across the west.  Native history and culture. To teach us our history and preserve natural resources for future generation. Largest  petrified wood showcase IN THE WORLD! A treasure for us all. Preserve the wood and forests of ancient times. Impact of history thru time. Amazing! Tourism. Enjoy and cherish the beauty that was given us!  To slow life down and enjoy! It is not very often you get to see petrified wood. To carry the wonders of past and nature to all our children down through time. Excellent thank you. HISTORY!!!  So many things here to learn about and see.  So important to pass on the history. Petrified rock formation/view. Preservation and education for future generations. There is no other place like it on earth. Pet. trees. ---- ----. Fossils. Thank you! The geographical and geological variation. History. Nature history. This is an amazing national treasure. The size and how much there is to see.  One of best parks to see. Shows a history. Preservation of our nation's natural beauty. Preserving history and geological features. Rt. 66 and history of western expansion, the historic aspect and sheer age of the petrified trees. Very significant. Petrified wood.  Human culture. Geological and native history. Painted Desert and petrified trees. Sharing history and nature for future generations. The unspoiled beauty.  Like limited access to keep it that way! This park is a unique display of geology and a glimpse back in time.  I was amazed at the spectrum of color and the multitude of petrified trees. Geological history and the topical structure of our country. Teaches a lot. To show others the beauty of what's here. Being the largest concentration of petrified wood, it deserves to be protected. Great history lesson-how it became petrified wood and the beauty of the painted desert. The views and natural beauty. Nature. To preserve one beauty and history of the land. Geologic masterpiece-preservation of untold natural treasures. One of the best things our presidents have done in est. the park, ---- maintaining it. Preservation for younger generations. I love petrified wood! The geology of the park itself is a national treasure-part of our heritage and history! And the ---- is a jewel and historically interesting as well! Geological and historical features. Petrified wood, but the painted desert is my favorite. Recreational opportunity are important for quality of life.  This park even includes historical significance. Lots of views.  (It's vast views). It's science and history. History. Unique geography and petrified wood cache. Preserving America's beauty-national parks do it best. Show God's beauty. Access to pre history. The expanse of petrified rock, the panoramas at every turn. Geological changer to the earth over time. Largest petrified collection in world, painted desert is very beautiful, open plastic let you appreciate what every settlers had to deal with. Preserve fossils for next generation. To preserve the national history. One of the most grandiose expanses of painted hills and prettification in the world. Besides the geological importance the native history in interesting I think the geology makes it important. The petrified wood and painted desert. This park shows the beauty of the desert and the history of the prehistoric times. Very important to me to see all things of this nature preserved for all to see. Awesome!  Thanks for protecting our history. Geological, cultural/historical significance. History for the great state of Arizona and the United States. Preserve beauty. To preserve history. To show us our history! To tell us their history. The painted desert and petrified forest.  Also petroglyphs and the wild animals. Safe keeping history. It's natural and historic objects. The beauty and tranquility feeling. Amazing views. The natural setting staying the same and not ruined with human intervention. Route 66, motel and various rock formations and ---- fossils (all nature wonders)."
281,Fort Matanzas NM,FOMA,"Historical-should be kept and restored. History of Florida. Historical preservation and presentation. Very significant. History. Excellent. Spanish influence. History. Always great to learn about history. Birth of A Nation-a place in history. History. Our heritage is preserved for the future. Awesome, first class ----. Beautiful! It was awesome! Nice staff. Protecting St. Augustine. The Spanish history of its founders. Very good-keep up the great work! Very significant. Great history. Marks history of occupatient conflict in U.S. History of St Augustine. 0 Learn about our history. Historical and natural history. Historical significance. Protected the first settlement. American history-the best kind. Historical. Preserve nature-beautiful. The long history of Florida, Spain, US. Yes History of St. Augustine and our nation. Cultural, historical. History. The visit to the park greatly expanded my knowledge of the early events in this area of the S.E. Share our history and heritage. Spanish heritage. It was very significant to St. Augustine ----. It is significant because it tells us history about Hordid and what happen. Fort. Preservation of history Matanzas Fort. Education. Great. Historical and recreational; preserve monuments. History. It is highly significant because of it's history. It's history about it. Very nice but was short ride, understand stormeci watching. Very very nice. Was good experience. How the South was formed. Historical significance of one in colonel times. A slice of History that eventually became a part of our nation. Saw an Eastern Ribbon snake at the entrance to boat ramp. Yes. History to the Spanish. Good-good history keep it!! Yes! It was awesome enjoyed. Very important to understand our history. It was a piece of history that most of us would never know about. Important history that does need to be preserved. History-preservation. Spanish heritage of the founding of Florida. Best of history. History of establishment of town. To teach history. Spanish history of U.S. Very important! The history of how it protected from the invasion of St. Augustine by the British. Great story, we could have treated Spain with more kindness! Heritage. History. Like to have restaurants the ---- ---- ---- ----. Very important to learn about our history. Very significant!  Excellent resource and historic monument. The early Spanish history of our country is largely ignored in favor of the English aspect in Virginia and New England. Ft. Matanzas has a significant historical value. Preserving natural resources, historic sites. Spanish heritage is of ten forgotten.  Thank you for keeping it alive. Our history. It's beautiful part of history. One of the earliest Forts. The history of Fort Saint Augustine. Our history-story of us! Best thing Fed. government has done for it's ----! Helps us know and appreciate our early history. It was very significant to historical preservation. Diversity-a history of where we came from. Highlighting diversity of colonial period. Awesome. Very interesting. History of different nations control. Outstanding. History. The history as well as the wildlife and natural formations. Great history for all. My family loves this place. Highly significant. Historical and educational. Historical. Fort Matanzas is historic. Give our future generation (children) an excellent source of information and history what this nation is has going through. Great job very interesting. History of Spanish Ship coming in. History-Spanish. I don't know. Seeing a historical trade mark. Great history, very unique, educational. It has sand and protected St. Augustine for so ---- ---- ---- it. Significance historic. Unique only on of it's kind in world. History. Very good. Part of Florida history. Historical. History of protection of St. Augustine. The history of ---- St. Augustine. Fort Mantanas represents our Spanish American influence in this area. History of Florida. It helps to demonstrate the diversity of American cultures in the early colonial era and the strategic importance of Florida for Euro empires. Important site from our Colonial history and therefore a natural treasure. I learned about Spain's effort to protect St. Augustine from the British. Very important to the history of Florida and therefore the rest of the country."
282,Zion NP,ZION,"To preserve natural landscape. To show the beautiful canyons. Majestic and magical! It helps people gain a relationship with nature. Wildlife and native preservation. We need natural resources to see and enjoy nature for future generations. Geological wonder found nowhere else. Beautiful! Loved ----. Human history. It is a part of great America. To preserve vital natural habitats. Unique pocket of beautiful. Geology! It is a peaceful place with amazing geological history. The rock formations improve understanding of how the earth formed.  Also provides natural space for wildlife.  It helps people ---- nature. Hiking Narrows. Recreation. Geology. Geologic wonder. Protection of nature. Establish. Geology and history. Beauty-majestic formations. Zion is so special because you get to experience it form the canyon.  It's almost a sacred, holy place. Very accessible natural geologic wonder brings.  Many kinds of people together to enjoy beauty and common heritage. It is an awesome way to preserve our native landscape and history. It is a symbol of the beauty of our nation. The beauty of our country. It's what God has created.  A beauty of nature. The scenes are too intense to ---- about national significance, beautiful park. Treasure. Natural beauty. Preserving wildlife and promoting conservation. Uniqueness/beauty. Beautiful, very adventurous. Connection with nature.  Preservation.  Responsibility towards ----. Preserve the history of our nation. Shows the amazing beauty of this national.  My favorite place in the world! God's beauty. It is an incredible display of the creation by God, of whom many of the founders of this country believed.  (Zion-City of God) It is freaking sweet. Natural beauty. We didn't find for a long time a parking space. Huge nothing like it anywhere else. It was established to help people learn more about nature. The beauty.  The experience of being at Zion's. One of the most beautiful places in the world! The red cliffs/river. Geological beauty. Protecting the diversity of the area, the animals, different climate zones etc. for future generations. Spectacular cliffs, canyon walls and colors that you wont find anywhere else. Celebrate natural wonders together with many different cultures. The red rock makes it unique.  The narrows and angels landing are my favorite. It's preservation of native. You don't see cool cliffs that you don't often see. Unreal. Zion's ---- and beauty. The park's natural diversity in a way mirrors this country's diversity of people, ideals, dreams. Valuable source of wildlife and flora. Beautiful nature, scenic views. Maintenance of habitat for wildlife. Unusual rock formations. Red rocks. To keep nature okay! Its historical value. Nations. One of the beauties of our land. Very high, pre-existing native land. Access to one of the most beautiful spots in the world. Beauty, wilderness, preservation of nature. Appreciate what the U.S. has and fully enjoy our resources. Overwhelming experience of nature you can't find anywhere else-something for all ages to participate in. The park is good for a soothing hike. To keep such an amazing place around for us and our children to see and enjoy.  Preserve God's creation for people around the world to experience. Preservation of natural beauty and resources. Its beauty and wildlife. Somewhere where families can come and have a good time. Unique-different from any other national park. Natural beauty. A place of fantastic beauty that should be preserved for future generations.  A geological wonder! It's really cool-unique. ---- the dog rules!!! Time changes all. The Narrows. Geology, recreation, hiking, enjoying nature. Great significance! It is the one thing the federal government does extremely well. Preservation of land/resources. Grandeur of nature in this area. Very important. To preserve the scenic and significant for future generations, as was done for us. Showing the beauty of nature. Recycling, ----, breathing. Educational. Very important to maintain the national parks. Historical and geological wonders. Preserving the natural beauty of our country. His beauty is like no other place in the world. Amazing scenic views. It was amazing and great for kids to adults. Unique beauty. The cliffs, water and natural beauty. Rock formations. The beauty. Unique park-unlike no other. To preserve the natural beauty of our wilderness, to preserve historically significant lands of the first nations. Rock formation and colors water and geology beauty. This is a awesome park. Preservation of the animals. Preserving nature. Extremely significant. This is great and kids love it. History, learning experience, one with ----. It need to be ---- and preserved. History and natural beauty. Maintaining the wild views. Exploring God's creations. It's beauty is unparalleled! To losing family, and enjoy the freedom of the park. Explore your park. Because is important to the nation. Preserving beauty and some pre history. The magnificence of this area. It is a natural treasure that would surely be blighted by development w/o federal protection. Great scenery and hikes:  Narrows, Big Bend, Angel's Landing, obs. point, etc.. Protecting a unique natural setting and its habitats. Preservation. This park helps protect important wild life. Nothing like Zion in US. Preserve a unique piece of America invaluable. Amazing place, story of rocks, history. I believe it's significant to safe guard and protect such beautiful places. Important. The beauty, natural environment. It's a beautiful place that has to be protected. Land mark that needs to be preserved. The Virgin feeds into the Colorado, so I was interested in the water history/policy. To preserve the natural beauty of the area and provide an experience of the outdoors. Great. I think this is a great place that recognizes the importance of preserving nature. It shows and highlights the beauty of Southern Utah that you can't find any where else. Protecting the beauty of this park."
283,Organ Pipe Cactus NM,ORPI,"It allows us to experience the beauty of a very unique desert land scape. Preservation of areas such as this is crucial! Lush desert.  Beauty beyond mention.  Peace and tranquility.  Bio-diversity. Natural environment.  Like please administration in keeping Parks accessible by general public. 0 Preserving biodiversity and open space. Botanical importance. Widest variety and highest density of cattle.  Dark sky allows milky way visibility.  Guaranteed good winter weather.  Road ways path allow access to diverse ecosystems. Only area in US with Organ Pipe Cacti. Outstanding geological and ---- scenery. Preservation of organ pipe cactus and much more. Quiet, natural, outstanding desert variety, good family camping affordable! Very beautiful area. The range of plants, animals, habitats, as well as the serenity, are amazing and deserve to be protected for future generations. It's splendor and the organ pipes-just wish I would have seen a bighorn sheep! Introduces/reinforces to the natural public desert environment and the deserts importance to overall natural health and planet's well-being. Organ Dipa cactus and other plants.  Nice ---- ---- ----.  Wonderful ---- through Sequina roads, beautiful landscapes.  Sunny days! 0 This is an exceptional park with exceptional staff. Entire National Park-unfortunately, the Park Ranger at the evening talk was inappropriate in warning re:  ""the illegal's"". Biosphere reserve, northern extension of Organ Pipe cactus, historical value also-courtesy culture of early 1900's. Finest piece of Sonoran Desert in the world. The way it was and how it's evolving and leave it for future generations.  Peaceful and back to nature. Rare and significant ecosystem; ""not a desert, but a garden"".  The park enables ""regular folks"" to experience a very alien environment. Biodiversity is unique to this park. Quiet desert beauty. It is the only U.S. area with Organ Pipe cactus, and it preserves a cross-section of the Sonoran desert. It is a great place to enjoy the areas natural beauty.  Great hiking, quiet and peaceful surroundings. Protection of antiquities, desert experience, education; cultures, nature, recreation, and renewal. It's unique floras that have to be protected for the present and the future generations to come. Away FROM lights-very quiet and natural.  We stop every year on our way in and out of Mexico. Protects rare desert plants and animals. To see this beautiful area left in such a wonderful natural state is a true joy.  It ---- joy to USA and allows many ----, large and small, to survive.  It allows people to relax and enjoy nature. 1) Historical regarding forming of the nation. 2) Climate and bio diversity of desert. Highlights life in the desert. Spectacular beauty and very unique area.  It is an ---- biosphere. Desert and cactus. Highly significant both historically; ---- and an added bonus is the recognition for being a ----.  And ---- of the cactus in this ----. The beauty and accessibility for all. The Sonoran desert.  The Organ Pipe.  The dark sky.  I love it here.  I'll come back. Protecting nature in a very unique area. It's a ---- reserve! Rest of example of Sonoran Desert anywhere! It should be a National Park. The only area in the US with organ pipe cactus growing naturally. The preservation of natural Sonorian Desert area is very significant. Nat. Prser. shows states that it is possible to offer senior citizens and others 50% discounts instead of the measly 10% discount of California.  Best offering by U.S. Gov't. Bio-diversity. To protect and feature the organ pipe cactus and other wild/natural features of the area. Many cactus and desert living. Natural and native heritage significance. The more parks, the better!  Seeing this vegetation-so different from W. Washington, where I'm from. This park is a jewel.  It's unique historical significance (native culture) and one of a kind environment should be preserved for all. Unique biosphere. Desert ecosystems-great examples of various types. Only place in the USA where the organ pipe cactus grows. Preserve ecosystem that supports unique organ pipe cactus. The park preserves the flora and fauna and landscape of a small and distinct area of the Sonoran desert for posterity. Sonora desert is magnificent.  Must be preserved.  Went to Saguaro Nat'l Park after OPCNM-why is Saguaro even a National Park? Sonoran Desert Preserve-captures its natural state. Its cultural and ---- ----. Relatively pristine desert.  Interesting history.  Close to Mexican Border. Organ Pipe Cacti, colorful mountains. We are visiting from Canada and find this to be an excellent learning experience.  Brochure very informative! Very significant-only place in U.S. to see some ""Mexican"" plants and animals. The special plants. The eco system, i.e., Organ Pipe Cacti, Pronghorns, Pup fish.  The biosphere and the potential of becoming a Park space. It's great that a piece of the desert is preserved as a natural environment/eco system.  Very ""natural"" and very scenic! Canadian.  Enjoy this Park-have been three times.  It is a lovely Park.  Rangers are good, as are Programs! A wilderness area, plain and simple!  This place needs to be kept as is.  No other place is like Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument. Biosphere preservation and opportunity to learn and be out in nature. Maintain the desert wilderness for future generations. Never experienced the desert completely until visiting Organ Pipe Cactus.  First came here on the advise of my husband's parents 20 yrs. ago. Northern most area in USA that Organ Pipe Cactus is found. Northern most area in USA where Organ Pipe Cactus is found. Preserves a unique, special environment. Protecting a unique biosphere! The beauty of the landscape-one of a kind plant life-preserved in a National Park for future generations! The desert protection. The Organ Pipe Cactus proximity to Mex. Border on biosphere. To have an area of the West that is free of development is extremely significant.  This allows our children and grandchildren a place to go to see what this Country used to look like before civilization moved in! Great example of Sonoran desert plants and animals and history. Importance of unique eco system for organ pipe and sanita cactus, Sonora pronghorn and contiguous preserve with adjoining Mexican national park. Pristine Sonoran desert flora. Beautiful, informative. Very great. Beautiful ---- and ---- loved the ---- Scenery, rare/endangered plant and animal species, rare water (---- and tinajas), history (ranching, mining, prehistoric peoples). Northern edge of Organ Pipe ---- keeping it for own grandchildren. 0 Very unique landscape, highly significant. ---- We have seen how National ---- state parks in the ---- of the USA. The Organ Pipe Cactus NM is so quite different to the other parks. The ability to experience a desert environment in it's primitive and natural state. Biodiversity, unique beauty, Northern range of the Organ Pipe cactus. ---- wilderness essential for ---- what little ---- is left in it's natural state. A wonderful place to experience the Sohoran desert. Freedom! To wander and wonder, to soak in the beauty, the awesome world we live in. It's a fine example of Sonoran ---- and associated wild life. Preserving desert landscape, plants and animals as well as natural and cultural history of area. Preserving this wilderness for generations to come! The Organ Pipe Cactus of course! The presence of the Organ Pipe Cactus. Unique desert plants of ---- Desert. Preserve the land and animals of the area for all to see. Uniqueness and beauty of the Organ Pipe cactus in a splendid setting.  We loved the park. It is unique and must be preserved. Preserving and displaying the Organ Pipe cactus in its natural environment and providing wonderful trails to go into the dessert to places otherwise undeveloped to us. Very significant! Organ pipe shelters an incredible array of Sonoran Desert treasures of flora and fauna. Preserving this parks unique flora. Preserve the habitat of the organ pipe cactus/sagvaro and how the border. Organ Pipe cactus, Native American history, beautiful green desert. Unique environment.  Wonderful place to learn how plants and animals live in harsh conditions and how people have utilized available resources. The geo ----. Historical natural features outdoor recreation, ---- night ski. Unique terrain-varieties of cacti-location. To preserve the beauty of the Organ Pipe cactus. Recreational opportunity for us to enjoy.  The cactus and wildlife and hiking. Preservation of natural resources. Good exhibit of Cactus and Desert plants, terrain, etc. The significance of this park is it's bio diversity and beautiful, peaceful landscape.  We loved this place!!! It's beauty, biodiversity, and history. Beautiful Senoran desert. This section of the Sonora Desert is the most beautiful section I've seen!  The plant and animal diversity is incredible. The flora, fauna and history of the area. Unique flora in the area. Its beauty, rare Cacti, shared resources with Mexico. Being on the border increase awareness of ties/exposure to Mexico."
284,Kaloko-Honokohau NHP,KAHO,"To understand how Hawaiian People lived in an apparently inhospitable area. The turtles were nice. To understand the meaning and importance of petroglyphs and other artifacts that our ancestors left behind. History of Hawaiian people inhabiting big island of Hawaii.  How they lived in coastal lava terrain. Historical site to preserve/protect/instruct about native Hawaiian fish pond areas. Fish ponds and fish traps used by Hawaiians preserve turtle habitat. The importance of native Hawaiians. Ancient Fish Pond and Rock Wall. Seeing Hawaiian culture areas and native plants, and animals. To preserve the Hawaii history.  Also the protection of the sea turtles. Shows early Hawaiian culture and evolution. To teach people about the history of the island and volcanoes as well as to enjoy the natural act of the volcanic lava. 0 Explanation of Hawaiian culture. It is very important to preserve Hawaiian culture. To share the history and culture of the Hawaiian people. It gives our nation's visitors perspectives on indigenous peoples, their history and lives, while maintaining delicate historical sites and precious coastal areas. Lava flowed through the park 2000 yrs ago. Preserving a place where ancestors lived, died and are buried as well as the man made sea wall. Very basic to early Hawaiian life. It is great for learning history of the area. The significance of this park is to preserve and educate visitors about and important aspect of Hawaiian history.  Specifically only fish farming example by native people. To ---- how Hawaiians recognized their interconnectiveness with land and how WE must learn to live in better harmony with land and sea. Preserves Hawaiian heritage and land for future generations. Cultural and native history. It shows how fishing was such a big part of the Hawaiian culture.  It reflects how the Hawaiians were conservationists and we should follow this mindset for future generations. Hawaiian culture, flora and fauna.  Too much shallow hand waving at indigenous culture, no info, more signs identifying plants and animals. To preserve Hawaiian culture. Important to understanding diverse cultures of our nation! Hawaiian culture. Highlight Hawaiian culture and history see sea turtles up close. I am glad to better understand the relationship between the people, land and the ----. Lava, plants and history. Hawaiian culture. Hawaiian history. Hawaiian culture. All heritage sites are great, interest to future generations. Hawaiian culture. To preserve the cultural, historical and archeological heritage of the Hawaiian people and to pass on the knowledge. Hawaiian culture. To honor the traditions and history of Hawaiian life, lifestyles and the wonderful use of resources.  To teach people to walk, swim, ----, respect. Relationship with nature, fishing. The historic and cultural parks to Hawaii's past. Correction to Native Hawaiian culture amid the explosion of tourism. Hawaiian history and culture, nature and geological history. Excellent rangers worked closely with children. Maintaining the history of the Hawaiian people. Outstanding way to learn first hand about Hawaiian culture. Very memorable. The animals. Hawaiian fish ponds/culture. Historical. Turtles and fish. Very important. Because of its cultural significance. We need to preserve Hawaii's natural resources and Hawaii's culture. To protect and ancient Hawaiian culture. A spot where one can sense what ancient Hawaiian life was like-with its fish ponds, ----, green sea turtles, water birds, etc.. To experience what it was like years ago.  Fishing with fishing nets for food source, sea life (turtles). Gives the public a lesson on history and nature. History. The fish ponds were important to the ancient Hawaiians. Hawaiian culture. Sea turtles. Ancient and historic land. Amazing historic value. Educational, cultural opportunities as well as preservation of ecological resources. It confirms the capability of the native population to provide for itself with innovative thinking and hard work. Hawaiian cultural history. Hawaiian culture. Sharing the culture of Hawaiian is wonderful.  Very important. The park is of utmost historical importance.  A magnificent treasure so beautifully lease preserve forever.  Thank you, thank you. Petroglyphs and home. Petroglyphs. Park staff had excellent customer service skills.  Thank you!"
285,Timpanogos Cave NM,TICA,"It's a cool place.  Early exploration. Point of interest.  Allowing exploration in nature facilities discovery. The caves. It is important to preserve more of these natural wonders.  It makes America beautiful. It has great structures. I don't ----. Preserving natural beauty. Caves are very delicate ---- easy to ----, ---- important and ---- natural environment. Preserving natural beauty ----. 0 The beautiful places we have are something to be cherished and preserved to continue to be a source of American pride! ----. Sustaining the natural beauty and caves. Gives children an education and reason to get off the couch! Unique Cave. History.  Variety within  our beautiful Country.  Very unique and well preserved. The uniqueness of the Cave and its features. It's amazing how old ---- we enjoy seeing the beauty of the earth. Interesting geology. It brings the citizens of the Nation together. The beauty and wonder of it. Such a wonderful tour! It is some thing that can't be replaced! Defines ---- ---- beauty ---- ----. Very informative. Geography. President of U.S. gave it to every one! I am ---- ---- appreciated ---- the Cave. Shows the wonderful natural ---- ---- - important to preserve! I loved the ----. To teach ----. Our nature. The specific ---- families. The cave is precious to keep forward same. Highly significant. Found by young adults which I think represents the pioneering spirit of UTAH and the USA at large. Geologic experience. Delicate features like the helictites. It is a treasure that really needs to be preserved. Incredible rock formations. Preserve the cave. ----. Beautiful valley, vistas, caverns. Beauty. The cave is a wonderful natural treasure and a great opportunity for the kids to put their electronics down and discover incredible formation. This park preserves cave features not found in other parks-every cave is different and therefore special.  Analogous to criteria 3 for National Register, somewhat. Freedom. All the unique formations. To preserve the Cave for future generations. Incredible geology and history of our beautiful lands. As explained on the Tour, this Cave has the largest collection of Helicitites in the Country.  These exquisitely detailed formations are deserving of preservation for contemplation.  Very beautiful. Very, it has so much unique beauty and history. Beautiful! Unique natural wonder.  Awesome place to take a family.  Beautiful scenery. Unique rock formations. Scientific study preserving ---- ---- creation. The cave and formations.  I loved the views. It's great to preserve things that were before us, so they'll be here after us. Makes me appreciate nature more. It's a great cave and it should be preserved. The cave. It was a cool place to take my family to. Rock formation, nature. Educating all of us of the amazing things we can find in this nation, and the opportunity to experience, in this case the cave. Only three have the specific formations.  ----? Very well preserved! The cave and the unique formations and history. The amazing caves! Natural caves and formations unlike anywhere in the country. A great learning opportunity and ---- ----. It's awesome! Keeping nature alive for future generations. Cave formations. Natural beauty. Fun, caves, nature, the history of the park. It's a testament to the national program that this park remains as gorgeous as I remember it as a ----.  Truly a treasure which I hope my grandchildren will enjoy. Love it. Rare beauty and opportunity to see ---- ----. That is has been preserved so well! This is a great exhibit and experience. Preserved ---- opportunities and natural history. Beautiful area-so much to do! What a great preserve of the amazing natural formations.  Truly a national treasure for all to enjoy. Beautiful. This cave is where I found Jesus. To show the preservation and beauty of nature. The cave. Geological history. Protect, preserve national treasures. Overall beauty and scenery. Timp. caves. Very significant. Amazing views, large beautiful caves, history. Beautiful cave! Natural caves. Yes. It is fantastic! It is a rare geological feature that should be seen by as many people as possible. The cave was amazing. The beauty of the scenery, and length of time it took for the caves to develop compared to when they were discovered! The cave and mountains-beautiful. Very knowledgeable. This was excellent, a very good learning experience.  Very enjoyable hiking and tour. The well preserved cave and formations inside. Perspective, process of change. The unique nature of the formations and how well preserved! Scientific studies. Science! It shows the beauty of America and can be found everywhere. It inspires a sense of amazement and the pioneering spirit of American exploration. Great. Beautiful ---- and ----. Being from the East Coast, seeing the diversity of our country's landscape is amazing. The history and natural formation of the cave. Historical/educational.  Beautiful. History and nature preservation. Nature, history. Pretty **** cool. To help us enjoy the beauty of our nation. History, tradition, and preserving beautiful, unique forms of nature. Preservation of beauty and history. The history of the caves and the natural progression over thousands of years. Beauty of the cave and its ----. Its rare beauty and unique formations. Unique, very awesome. Early explorers found this cave.  For the adventurer. Natural beauty.  Unique. Beauty! Excellent! History. The natural beauty. The cave tour was great for learning about natural history. Would have liked even more info on the formations but the guide did a nice job. Thanks. Never been anywhere outdoors. 1st time but will definitely return with others. It's important to experience all the beauty ----. Like all national parks I think they are very important and should be preserved for future generations. Being able to enjoy God's creation. It's an ---- ---- ---- ----, to ---- ---- ---- seen. The national significance of the park is the caves and the mountains. ----. Historically it's amazing.  I'm into science, it's amazing beautiful to see earth ---- of caves, awesome. We were able to see rock and cave formations that we couldn't see any where else. A natural wonder that is unique.  Although it's the only cave we've been to. The ----. The caves It's part of the natural ----, should be preserved for future generations ---- ---- of knowledge. Natural history, hiking. It's natural/---- ----. Very unique ---- ---- ---- explore ----. Very good place to spend time with the family. Natural history. The ---- ---- ----. It is a treasure to know what's inside the mountain. Learning ---- ---- the importance of ---- ---- ---- and this park. To inform the public on how the caves were made and the beauty and need to protect such national treasures. A good depiction of ---- ---- ---- ----. Stalagic. History, education, inspiration. In the cave put sensor light. God made it. Very nice. The historic landmarks. It protects an irreplaceable national treasure. Put on the cave map! Very significant. The caves and formations. Preserving the beautiful natural occurring caves. Beautiful formations! The vibes and the view. History. I think it is great for teaching how things were formed. Great edu opportunities. Teach. Natural beauty that is inspiring to the mind and spirit.  It is irreplaceable. The caves and its interesting and unique features. Variety of geological features and minerals. Its beauty. I think it's very special being it's a very fun experience and you get to see people in a fun way.  THIS PLACE IS AWESOME! I loved the cave. The cave alone is worth it! Timeless beauty in the way nature evolves. To educate the public. The outdoor experience, spectacular mountain views, unique geological formations. Very important for helping current and future generations appreciate our world. The cave features, historic. To allow people to learn about the cave system and how fragile a cave ecosystem can be.  Learning about the different minerals and the history was very interesting. To learn about our nation's beauty and to protect it for the next generations. History and beauty of the park and cave. Learning and family spending time here. The history/origin.  Uniqueness of the cave. Unique feature, not many to see. Caves. Your park helpers did amazing hard work! Caves are part or our legacy. The beauty of the park.  The ---- ---- ----. Unique and pretty, different from East Coast caves. Natural beauty. High significance due to unique ability to experience a real cave up close. Everything. Very significant. Very good. Interesting cave formations. Very significant, ---- ----. The sights. The preservation of unique and natural beauty and rock formations! Very valuable. IT is a unique cave having a long hike to the entrance. History of discovery.  Age of geo features. The cave is ---- and definitely valuable, provide for future generations. Very beautiful and serene."
286,General Grant NMem,GEGR,"Unity of the Nation. Historical value. Recognition of a civil war general and past-President.  Information about Civil War battles and generals. A part of American history. Historical significance. It has historical interest. Historical significance. Historical significance. Historical significance. Historical significance. Historical significance it has and interest for me. Historical significance. Historical significance. History and honoring some one who made a difference for the Country. A wonderful memorial to a man who did amazing things for this Country. Historical interest. It has historic and interest. It has historical significance.  Grant is important person in the U.S. history. This park has historical signification. Having visited Lincoln's grave only two weeks ago, we found the significance of this grave site ---- limited. It ---- the man perhaps most responsible after Linlola for preserving the Union and ending the scourge of slavery. History. Makes people ---- ----. Ulysses S. Grant. I'm more interested in the design decoy, and restorations their as a final resting place. Honoring past President U. S. Grant ---- building. This memorial houses a former general/president who helped end the civil war. Grant was one of the most important figures in our nation's history.  His tomb is beautiful and I like the flags and bunting.  I wish more people knew about him. Pres. Grant was one of our nation's great presidents and leaders. Remembering the history of the Civil War and freedom to slavery. Ulysses was a bad ****. Honoring great American.  George very knowledgeable! To remember General Grant and his contributions to the U.S.. To remember, remind, teach people about a big event in history and the brave Americans who shaped our country. Grant paved the way for a common thought. Definitely was very important part of the history. It recognizes one of the most important historical figures in American history. Memorializes Grant-but the lack of staffing kept this closed the first time we visited, so we had to come back a second time.  The VC told us nothing ---- Grant. Historical significance. It has of historical significance. Historical ----. Historical significance and interest. We worked the monument to do research for our 4th grade son's social studies project on landmarks.  We learned a lot about General Grant's contributions to the U.S. To remind us of what General Grant did for our natural and to not let us forget about the ---- of 1,000's. Remembrance and historical significance of one of this country's most important President. It's one of the most important places to visit.  An American true hero! Union makes strength. Very important. President Grant was a very interesting figure in American history. To let people know what a great man he was. A celebration ---- with the end of the Civil War. A most valuable part of your natural history. Honor President Grant for his service at war and in peace. Great-CW General, US President-the Tomb was interesting and historically is important.  Hamilton-Founding Father. Raising awareness of important historical figure. Grants tomb. Where General Grant was buried.  Doesn't say much about his Presidency. Too immense to write here. History, preserving it and showing generations what has happened in our history and the people involved. Grant's Tomb-not much to see, but was glad I visited it and don't have any suggestions except."
287,Saguaro NP,SAGU,"It's unusual-uniqueness because of the Saguaro Cactus...only grows in a particular climate. To set aside this area of deserts to keep it from being developed; illustrate plant life uncommon to many people and how this is a very special habitat. Saguaros and related Eco-Systems. The amazing Saguaro-so unique to this area. Protecting a prime example of Sonoran desert Habitat. Saguaro Cacti. It's a treasure to maintain the So. AZ desert and Saguaros. Saguaros and mountains are stunning.  We must keep it protected. Shows the diversity of each individual national park and what ""jewels"" we have in this USA. Sensitive and unique environment of a desert. Very high! Expanding knowledge of desert environment. Saguaros!  Awesome cacti. It is nice for people like myself who don't live here to see and learn about our American deserts. Southwestern habitat, the great Sahuato cactus (spectacular), birds/plans/wild life unique to SW. The beauty of nature. The significance is the preservation of the Saguaro, plants and animals of the Sonoran desert that have their habitat here.  The beauty and opportunity people have to learn to share in this environment. Protection of natural environment.  education about same. Unique species of Cacti in large stand not seen in public areas any where else. Unique land scape. Teaches. Uniqueness. It lets people see nature at its best and in the same way it has been for years. Learning more of area and unique plant life. One of the few places in the Nation that you can see the variety of Cactus. Only area where Saguaro is present in the U.S. The Saguaro Cactus in their natural setting, and preserved in that setting. To display and share the magnificence of the national wonder. A sign that we can protect sensitive areas in Nation and make them accessible to all. The Saguaros. The unique habitat of saguaros needs to be preserved. Preservation of the Natural resources.  Education opportunities. To protect the wonderful Saguaros for future generations. The saguaro population. To preserve the cactus in their natural environment for future generations. Teaching people to appreciate mature and all things this great country gave us. Being thinking well marker trails in Saguaro. The protection of the Saguaro's and its eco system. I would like more bike lanes and handicap accessible trails! Unique area, deserves preservation for now and future. Preservation of nature.  In this case (Saguaro NP) also providing exposure to the best of the Sonoran Desert. Preserve Sonoran Desert. Caring for endangered Saguaros. The uniqueness of the Saguaro ecosystem. Preserving the ---- desert and its wildlife.  Educating people of the importance of these places. Preservation of desert and ----. Uniqueness of plant life. Saving and protesting natural resources. Unique eco system of N. Sonoran Desert. This park represents a large region of what is now the U.S..  It is a very unique place and should be respected as such.  Humans have been here thousands of years. To protest the cactus species in the area. Seeing the beautiful environment and learning about it's natural history. Saguaro cactus. The Saguaro forest. The diversity of plant and animal life. Experience the Sahara Desert. A profound treasure for not only US citizens but a wonderful example for international visitors as well. Unique Sonoran desert flora. Protecting unique Saguaro habitat so that American's land others) can enjoy it. Shows off desert landscape. Reasonably unique local eco system. The scenery is magnificent.  The abundance of Saguaros and other vegetation, as well as the mountain views are all breathtaking. To preserve the Saguaro cacti and the natural habitat. Opportunity to enjoy the outdoors, historic value. The native plants and vegetation, ancient ----. Saguaro forest, native plants, birds and animals. Education of our Southwest area plants, wildlife, experience open air and spaces are priceless. Conservation of desert environment and Saguaros, recreation in pristine natural environment. The Saguaro cactus. ---- The fact that nature is being preserved and not endangered by humans. Preservation of the habitat. Protect Saguaros.  Offer recreation. To learn about the plants, the interaction with weather, other species. Saving land from ----. A unique fauna and flora that you cannot find in other places of the US. A unique part of the U.S.-a natural wonder. Preserve wildlife and plants. Preserving nature and the ----; love the trails! Protect from ---- Protecting environment. This park is a breathtaking preserve of beautiful natural American wildlife.  It is an incredible unspoiled land that should be preserved for science and posterity. To preserve and protect the national treasures of the south west desert and to instruct on the balance of the ecosystem. To preserve natural habitat for generations to come. The unique Saguaro. Provides great views of the city and of the Saguaros. ---- It's in the name! Only park where the cactus can be seen. Preserving the eco system in an amazing setting. Preserving the Saguaros and keeping development at bay. Saguaro only grow here. Saguaro!!!!  Beautiful. Saguaros!  Cactus loop! This park ---- Diverse plant and animal life and preservation of this special ecosystem.  And appreciation of indigenous culture. Hi desert-rich. It helps promote the pursuit of happiness. Senoram desert landscape, ---- lessons of avid environment for nation confronting climate change. The preservation of ---- dessert plants, animals and land. The desert hikes and flora and fanna are magnificent. Native/local flora and terrain. Outdoor ---- hiking enjoy desert and nature. Shows natural diversity. I love this park. Hike here often. Our (one thing) amazing, well-maintained, beautiful parks are what makes this country great. Preservation of a unique ecosystem and giving access to magnificent scenery. To preserve plant and animals is unique to the Sonoran Desert. Extremely high. Conserving and protecting the desert environment, particularly the saguaros. Only location of Saguaro Cactus Sahuaros. To protect plants and animals of Sonoran Desert.  Need to do more about invasive plants threatening desert. If Nat. Parks were not set aside, the areas would be developed and only the rich would enjoy the areas. Unique vegetation, mining, early homesteading native cultures, we need to protect natural resources. Very much so. Many people enjoying park at time of my visit. Great place to experience desert flora and fauna of the desert Southwest plus history of area. Unique Cacti and location.  Preservation of vegetation and land. Preserving ---- 0 Protection of Saquero ----. Beautiful nation, this makes it accessible. The exquisite beauty of the mountain range.  Ability to experience nature and wildlife and appreciate the beauty of our nation. Natural beauty of desert, Saguaros and other plants and animals in Sonoran desert. Natural beauty, desert scapes. History, nature, bio diversity. It is a special area where the Saguaro cactus grows in abundance. ----. I lived near if just water/to go hiking several ---- due to beautiful Park!!! It's uniqueness and beauty. Education about environment. High: preserve unique ecosystem.  We love our national parts! Being able to see and appreciate the rare Sonoran desert in its natural form. Connection to the Native Americans and their way of the land historically."
288,Saugus Iron Works NHS,SAIR,"Learn how early colonists lived and worked. American history. Shows us how the iron works was made and how it pertains to today. History. 0 Industrial beginnings in the colonies. The start of the iron industry which helped the Puritans become self-sufficient. The beginnings of the iron industry in the American colonies. For the 18th century iron production. The education of ---- which supports every trade. As a metallurgist this is great.  I have come 3 times with grandchildren after my first visit. Showing the growth and development of early America. Birth of a transformative technology in the US. Showing the history of the metal works. It is the first iron manufacturer in the U.S.. It tells one of the many stories of the building and development of our nation. Early American ironworks.  Rangers were excellent.  Very knowledgeable.  Home should be open if visitors are interested. How iron is still used for making things. Gives a peek into how early entrepreneurship formed the USA we know today. Tells the importance of the early iron industry in american history. Very first iron works. History of iron works in USA. First iron works, extremely valuable as a historical site based on countries wealth built in the iron/steel industry. Explaining national industrial history. Historically significant. It is where industrial revolution and the steel industry got it's start. It's important to learn about industries that helped build America. Learning about history.  Great park.  We really enjoyed ourselves.  Top-notch rangers.  Great job. The history of Iron Works and Colonial times in our Nation's history. Shows the start of the Industrial Industry in the 17th Century. Industrial development of natural historical importance. History. Very significant but under appreciated, origins of iron working in America, value to economy. Opportunity for learning and growing ones imagination (insight). Local MA history. Educational values for modern question to learn about the national ----. The root of iron industry and legacy to our children and environmental affects. 17th century site-not many of them! To show us where the first ironworks of this country began and inspire more interest in skills that have been wanting in this country. Iron industry start-in America. It is the first Iron Works in the country. Independence from England, pre-Revolutionary War. First iron works. It is very high.  Very educational. Its place in industrial history of the U.S.. V. significant. It is a wonderful look back at early industry. Very educational.  Thank you. To preserve the remembrance of the history and to convey to the public the history of the ---- iron works and its ----. Very high. The origins of the North American Iron Industry. The Park's historical significant lies in the fact that it was the first iron works in the North American Colonies.  Despite its failure after two decades of operation, it created other iron works in the colonies as as ---- workers left and started their own apportions. Very imp. Very important to industrial independence. Very important to industry. Yes very interesting to learn about the history. ---- brings together geology, chemistry, industry, and the political and cultural of colonial America. Fascinating! It was the birth place of successful iron production in the U.S. helping establish independence from the British supply of iron. The park interprets industry and technology ----.  That technology was key to the development of this country! 1. It is the birth place of U.S. industrial technology.  2. It is the birth place of colonial economic independence. Preserve historic sites.  Preserve and educate the public about use of natural resources and outdoor enjoyment. First iron work in America. Preservation of species, building, natural resources, and recreation. It shows the start of industrial iron working in New England. This park allows for a richer look into the how and why industry relies on man harnessing and recognizing nature is ----. It shows us the first site of iron works in US. The first great iron works which made the base for the iron industry. It's fascinating insight into early life in New England, and the reconstructed buildings are a very ---- way to demonstrate this. ---- Preservation of the past. The historical benefit in the evolution of our nation both in people/population and industrial growth. A helpful place to see where early industry started. It teaches us more about our past and our history.  Very informative. Seeing the first buildings used for forging in the U.S. was surreal.  It's beautiful and very historically valuable! Very significant to American culture. The first iron producing site in our history. This is when industry began by ---- Birth of an important commodity to our economic wealth-like that of Industrial Revolution (in a way). Iron works and Nutting House. First site of cast and wrought iron. History of the iron works. Birth place of iron works and thus our cities. Birthplace of iron working in the U.S.. Start of iron industry. History of American technology. Origin of Iron Works-our kids (3 and 5) now see iron beams, ask about them, and want to know more! First iron works in US! Early Iron works. Historical information on early American Industry. 1st iron works in the nation, in late 1880's my great-great grandfather was employed in an iron works in Massachusetts. Very important-very interesting. Understanding early smelting and iron making. It was great.  I'm with my son who's 13 yrs old and he learned a lot. We shouldn't lose sight of the unique of industry. Important history of how people lived and what helps us in present get ---- It was the 1st iron works in the USA back when industry made USA a great nation.  The fact that it was as good as a British iron works. The history is very valuable! Protect and preserve for the future generations. The origin of iron making folks in North American/USA. Show the history of iron making in the early history of the nation. It is a first for American industries. The oldest iron works in the country is very significant.  The restoration is amazing. Very important. It demonstrates early American industrial activities. The foundation of the American iron and steel industry. Birth place of American iron. Beginning of iron production in North America. Making iron to increase industry. First iron works! Living history. Very significant-a ---- new into early American manufacturing. Founding of iron works in U.S. Start of industry; cultural melting pot. Very significant considering that this is the origin of U.S. iron production. The beginning of the Iron industry for America. Absolutely! First complete iron works in America. First iron works. Great-first patent!!  So important to history buffs-more so to history education.  Great artifacts. The knowledge of Ranger was above average from my expectation. Shows my children how early settles made a life for themselves. This park teaches about the beginning of metal works in the US. The importance of the Iron Works and imparting its history. The park is historical.  It shows the importance of having the first iron works developed. Saugus Iron Works exemplifies American industrialization ingenuity, and history pre-revolution.  Great! Introducing iron mining and manufacturing to America. VERY old iron industry, architecture. Early Industrial Development.  The idea of American autonomy and industrialization. We loved it as a family activity.  Ranger program was wonderfully conducted-and it was free. It shows the origins of the Iron Industry in America and gives a great over view of the process. America was built on the Steel Industry and some of that had its earliest roots here. First Iron production in the U.S.A. History of Iron Works-inclusion pre-Revolutionary.  Also interesting that the House wasn't historically associated with the Iron Works-fascinating stuff. History of Industry and success of the Colonies.  Housing of Puritan Society. First Iron Works. This Park is significant in educating the next generation on the Iron Industry Legacy of U.S. history and especially New England history. As a cultural landmark it is incredibly important for allowing locals to understand the significance of their towns. First industrial iron site, forge, slitting mill, furnace, etc. The history of the Beginning of Manufacturing. HUGE!  So interesting that all details about the populations!  Rangers need a raise! As our nation's first iron workers this is an important historic site-it helped us bolster our future and become an industrial nation. 0 Historical preservation. Origin of religious freedom and industrial development in Mass. Top priority. Learning about the history of the ---- Iron Works, looking at the sites learning how iron was made for the early settlers. Significant early U.S. industry. How the Puritans industrialized this region.  Why trends in industry began and declined."
289,Bandelier NM,BAND,"Preserved nature and past. Pre-Navajo/Pueblo archaeology; although still shrouded in non-scientific cultural ""maybe/could be"" speculation and cultural political correctness-facts reported were limited. Learning and seeing how the Pueblo Indians lived 1400 yrs. ago. Tells an Indian story-wish I knew more!! To keep and preserve the history of the native American's ancestors that once lived in the area. History of the area and the people that lived here. A place to go to learn and enjoy about nature. We loved seeing the origins of our great nation. Archaeological and beautiful. Sharing the history of the ancient Pueblo people. Remembering our native ancestors. History and culture and nature. Heritage, history, architecture. Because of its historical significance, pre-white settlement. National significance is knowing where all our history comes from. Unusual opportunity to see/experience an early American native settlement. By far the history behind this area. To preserve our part and learn from it and understand and be thankful for our blessings. Part of America's history.  That we fail to remember and properly depict.  Here you do both. It is our history.  And our culture. Beauty of nature.  History of people. Visitor from ---- preserve the heritage and history of the ---- the land. Indian culture. We must preserve our ---- and especially its special place of nature ---- and history. Preservation of historic cultural artifacts.  Preservation of natural ---- Pre Columbian history. CCC buildings, ---- history. History of native culture. Keeping history alive and preserving nature. The culture and how its presented. The cliff dwellings. History of Pueblo people as affected by climate change. The ability to ---- It's awesome. Looking to our past. Historical record of indigenous populations. Native American heritage. Preservation ---- To preserve the history of this area. History of the ---- History of this place. History. Of great importance to U.S. history. HISTORIC and obvious breathtaking beauty. History. Allows us to learn about first people of our country. History of Pueblo people and America. 0 Preserving and everything about a history and culture that isn't thoroughly taught. Education about native American history. Our history. Great. ----. Major-I had no concept of the natives of the southwest culture, etc.  Before visiting here 30+ years ago. Recognizing the culture of the native Americans. Native history and the learning of there home environments. The history of the native culture. History of native Americans. Preservation of history and natural environment. High. History ----. Past civilizations that helped create America. Massive! It introduces people who live in cities what life was like to the native Americans. Culture and heritage. The cultural value. ----. Education regarding early Indian culture and nature. ---- to it's native roots/culture. Historical evidence. Keep the knowledge and history of the Pueblo people alive. Preserving the history of the Pueblo people. Sharing the national history and heritage. Very important. A nice opportunity to experience an early culture-our ancestors! Caves, piece of native culture. History of native people, bring people outdoors. History of the ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. Ancient Indian culture and history. History of native people. History and knowledge about ---- people lived ---- ----. Historical heritage and amazing landscape and nature. Preserving the past. Preservation of native culture. Cultural awareness. Preserving history for future generations. Education about ancient people, great outdoor experience. It is very significant to native population of New Mexico and is a great teaching resource for all ages. Cliff dwelling and artifacts. Teach about Native American heritage and visit places where they once dwelled. Ancestral natives heritage and the bonds with nature. Teaching about native culture and way of life and respect for all people. Historic and cultural. Fantastic sights, they enjoyed my visit. Native culture and heritage preservation of nature. Native culture and life conditions intro to sw history. Preservation of ancestral native American living and culture. Preserved ---- topology. History of the people previously living on this land and their relationship with the earth and each other.  We have a great deal to continue learning from them, the plants and the trees. Important opportunity to learn about nature-human interaction over time. ---- Retaining our history. Learning how the native Americans adapted to the environment so successfully. History of native people. It was important to learn about Pueblo's history and culture. Heritage culture. Saving antiquity ---- ----. ---- Learning about previous inhabitants of this great land. A view of the ---- this country and a hope to preserve for the future. History natural beauty recreation. Incredibly significance. ---- Historical monuments, parks in particular and especially this one, more visitors with a greater appreciation for places by knowing ---- ---- people learn to tread more respectfully and ---- ---- ---- ----. Our culture and history. This park is a critical part of our culture and an essential way to preserve a part of our history. Odd scenery-very unique place. Not US national so can't comment. Preserve Indian and history and nature. Culture of the people who lived here. We loved learning the history of the native people. Very significant. It's important that we know about the history of the land that we live on. History of native culture and the ability to see native animals in the wild. History of our native ---- Preservation of an area that was home to a Native American people. The history of people's use of the land's geology and other resources. Historical and colonial high significance. It's history which has to be preserved. Shows the country's history before nation building. The heritage of the 1st nations. To preserve the history and culture and beauty that so very many before us have cherished. It is a part of our history and very important learning can be had from visiting. Keeping history alive. Native culture. Our nation's origins. Caves and beauty of natural surrounding. Awesome.  Very cool for our kids to see this.  They learn about this culture in school, but to see it brings it alive! Cultural significance of cliff dwellings.  Natural beauty. Learn how pueblas lived. The beauty and culture of this area. To teach the future about the past. It is part of the vital prehistoric history of the Southwest and Pueblo people. Gives much better knowledge of ancient first nation's Pueblo peoples. Amazing!  We loved it and were amazed by the landscape and history. Historical/educational. I think American culture should be preserved. Our history. Showing history of previous inhabitants. Shows how ancient people lived and prospered before us. Anazi history. History of the nation, and the original people of the area. Very significant. Remember the past. Preserving ancient culture in magnificent environment. Past cultural history, management of natural resources used by people of the past and today. Ancient Pueblo Peoples. Conserving Nature and history for posterity. The culture. Significant to the history and culture of NM! Excellent examples of how early peoples lived in this region. To learn about history of Native American Peoples and their construction methods. The history-preservation of Native Peoples. Important both historical and geologically. Cultural history, architectural, ----, geological-we need the Park! The pre-history of our Country can teach us a lot about how to care for our land. Preservation of culture, understanding of established civilization pre-invasion.  Anglo people needs for education regarding displaced ----. Love the Shuttles.  All National Parks should go this direction.  No more INDUSTRIAL tourism. Historical and cultural heritage site. History of People-U.S. Native American history! To learn about locals from the area. Teaching visitors about the ancestral Pueblo People.  Appreciation for natural resources and preservation. Being able to discover a piece of history of nature (so ---- ancient history) before the US ----. It shows that the ---- nation and ----. How the Native Americans adapted.  Volunteer Len Scheel was very helpful. Historic ---- To show how the people lived when the pueblos were built. Shows how the very early inhabitants lived. It's to show Native homes, learn about history and nature, and to go on amazing and beautiful trails. Early native cliff dwellings.  Not nature or wildlife or even geology.  Your 14-minute film is abysmally void of cliff dwelling interpretation/education. Preserves history and culture of the people who lived here before. Maintaining awareness of other peoples-the first Americans. The people who settled this place were among the first humans to live in North America.  They should be remembered, honored, learned from. Example of ancient habitation. The preservation and upkeep of a monument of humanity. Reveals the history of our land and fellow citizens."
290,Wilson's Creek NB,WICR,"Historic Civil War site-excellent historical landmark. The War Between the States/Civil War is a part of our heritage as a country.  Sites like this one are a living part of that history. Second battle of the Civil War; Missouri had more Civil War battles than any other state. One of the first Battles in the Civil War.  It represents an important part of our heritage; particularly in the Midwest. Valuable history, lesson in American unity, terrible cost of freedom. Battle where first Union General is killed.  Second Major Battle of Civil War.  Third most fought over State in number of battles. The history for both the East and West in relationship to the Civil War. 1st Union general killed here in CW. Presentation of natural historic resource. Preserving a historical battlegrounds where a general died.  Protecting a natural resource of significant history. CW battle, states ----, preservation first union general did have to be killed in ---- ---- ranks 3rd in ----. Preservation of sacred ground. Sacred ground, battle fought and first federal general killed here. Historic preservation. Understanding of Missouri's part in Civil War. Helps keep history alive. Extremely significant-Civil War history is our history and it needs to be preserved and honored. Civil war history. First large Civil War battle west of Mississippi. One of the earliest major engagements and the sign of the ---- first field grade casualty-(major significance). History was made here-all Civil War sites should be preserved. The Civil War was a significant event in our national history.  Too bad American history is not deemed relevant in our pubic school system today. American soldiers died there and it should be sacred. The civil war was an important time in our nations history.  This park provided insight into how a family reacted to a war taking place in their front yard. Wilson Creek played a major part in the battle for Missouri being part of the Union during the Civil War. Not to forget that our freedom liberties are not at all free!  Great sacrifice in beliefs.  Husband and wife from Wisconsin. Provide more ---- of the early civil war and at the west's Missouri's role the video was well done and very fact filling. It's key roll in the civil war. 1st battle ground of civil war. Battle here kept Missouri in the war. It highlights the differences between unionists and rebels.  This area was especially divided without the entire state siding with one faction.  One of the first civil war battles 1st general to die. MO history in 1860's. One of the largest early battles of the civil war. Important to know your history. Explained very well the chain of events leading up to the start of the Civil War and strategy MO/Kansas pre Civil War Conflict ----. Major civil war battle. Learning about historical facts that happened close to where I live. History of the Civil War in Southwest Missouri. Very good. Our history is very important. As key in Civil War the national ramifications are significant to this story. Extremely valuable opportunity to introduce students to national and historical impact of local events. As a crucial battle early in the civil war this help keep Missouri in Union this park is very significant. Honor the men and the battlefield. Remember where you came from. Vermillion gave tour and history of the Battle and family and the lead man he was very interesting and knew well what he was talking about.  He appeared to like his position, he was enthusiastic about presenting the info to us.  Thank you.  Wanted to comment on Tour of House. Preserving history and teaching children and adults about what formed our country. 2nd major battle of Civil War. Civil War battleground. Preserve the sight ---- Civil War-keeping ---- in the union. History of the Civil War was period and the part MO played! To provide information about the Civil War battle that took place here. Understanding American history. Preserve history in this area. The Civil War is an important part of our history and all fields of battle are historic and need to be preserved. This war is a very important part of history and it is important to keep it alive for generations to come. Understanding American history. 2nd major Civil War battle site. ---- ----. This provides insights into the huge amount of conflict (---- and battlegrounds) in Missouri.  It illustrates some of the few incursions into the North by the Confederacy. History of our country."
291,Antietam NB,ANTI,"Antietam NB is hallowed ground because of what took place there.  It is important that we can go there to learn, reflect, and remember. Keep history alive and tell story of key battle of civil war. It's our history. Significant in bring this Union together. Remember the sacrifices others have made. American freedom. ---- cost of war-lives lost!! Perfectly shows the horrors of war. The Civil War. Antietam NHS is one of the most important battlefields in the country, glad I finally got to visit it.  Awesome experience. This park preserves and safe guards one of the most valuable historical sites in our country. It is vital that we learn the lessons ---- can ----. Historical. We have to help our history river present. Antietam battlefield is a testament to the great human sacrifices that were made to preserve our great nation.  It should be preserved for all future generations to witness. All of the history of the Civil War is important to the generations. National history, remembrance. The Battle. It's an amazing way to experience a huge part of our history first hand. Bloodiest Battle of the Civil War-good to preserve that history the way it looked back in 1862. Civil War history. It teaches about an important Battle that many don't know about from public education (I am a former teacher). Very important to the history of Union! Great significance. Actual place where the layout of the land can be experienced. Keeping memories and history alive. History. Remembrance. History of the civil war. It is important to know where we have been in order to know where we should go. Presentation of our history. Turned tide of war, won import for emancipation proclamation, prevented England/France from taking sides, recognizing confederacy. History, remembering past. Turning point in war with it turning for the north and union. Learning from history. Emancipation. Ability to teach my grandson how important are ---- and ---- way to our past and present. Emancipation proclamation. Mark ---- our ranger lecture guide was exceptional.  Really painted an excessive picture of the battle. A history that very much needs to be known, a nation held together at great cost. To respect and learn about and from the actions and sacrifices of our countries history. Very significant. Most killed in one day. Priceless and a valued piece of American history. The history of the area, especially the civil war. Very, very high!  Hallowed ground! Pivotal Battle Ground in the Civil War that determined whether the U.S. is our Country with two ----. Emancipation Proclamation.  Bloodiest One Day Battle.  First major victory. Kept the Union together. ----. It's the most bloodiest one-day battle in the Civil War. It tells our history which we should not forget or repeat. It symbolizes the true sacrifices made by both the North and the South! Very significant.  Great Park. Legacy.  Original. Excellent. Extremely important to preservation of American history. Amazing history! This Park is very significant because of its importance to the Civil War Story. Bloody land. History ---- ----. It reminds us that others died for our Nation.  It reminds us that War is not a good way to solve differences. One of the ---- periods of U.S. history, the Civil War. One of the first major battles. Understand the impact of War on a community. Understanding your Country's history. Fantastic facility. To preserve history. Very. The formation of the Nation's unity and lasting value as a beacon of freedom. The battlefield at ---- ---- in importance with the U.S. memorial at Normandy. 0 Documentation of history of our nation. I think ---- was a turning point in the Civil War-the beginning of the end of the confederate cause. Turning point in war.  Allowed Lincoln to make the emancipation proclamation. Remembering and honoring both the Union and Confederates.  Both deserve honor. Battle fought.  Learn more-past.  People died-people want remembered. It's history. Heritage. Honors the brave men that fought and died for what they believed in. Important to remember history. Great to be able to see where history took place. It brings important historical events to life. Its importance in the history of our country. Recognition of the events that took place and remembrance of those who gave their lives. The Civil War. History of America. It was a significant battle in the Civil War. Remembering history. To preserve history Three Farms and Tidball a bit over grown on my day there.  Hallowed ground-keep the focus of the Battle front and center. It helped to shape the outcome of the Civil War and therefore society today as we know it. Learn American History. American Civil War history. We must continue to honor those who gave their lives-both union and confederate.  It is our history. Civil War history.  How far we have come and still have yet to go. To tell the story of battles of our nation to unify the nation. We should never forget the devastation left on our own soil because of a civil was-brother fought against brother.  The fight for freedom continues today. It is one of the most significant Battles of the Civil War, with the highest casualties to date, and resulted in Lincoln declaring emancipation. To capture the sacrifice and commitment of their soldiers who met on this Battlefield.  We can not honor them enough!  Also to show our children this history. It is important not to forget the conflict that tore us apart, nor the great underlying evil of slavery that led to the conflict in the first place. 1st to honor the fallen, 2nd to honor the sacrifices on both sides.  3rd to learn from our past in an attempt to not repeal the same matches again. Remembrance and honoring our past. It represents a time and place which is very significant to American history."
292,Isle Royale NP,ISRO,"remote, relatively undisturbed but easy to navigate and access. Very high-very unique. Unique site; frustrating history; great views of lake; campers ---- unfailingly pleasant; please protect this park. Uniqueness and the Wolf/mouse program. To show the beautiful creation our Lord has made. It is one of the few really wild places to paddle our sea kayaks. It is a wilderness that seems almost untouched except for necessary Park services. Natural beauty and unique eco system. Remote, pristine wilderness. History, natural features. Wild, remote, in the middle of Lake Superior.  Great camping and backpacking! Preservation of nature and various unique habitats. The pristine environment.  Ability to get away from the indoor area. It's a special place to retreat to from the daily stress of life.  It's a beautiful place to come (and return)! Preservation of wilderness. It's an island, shared by ---- and ----. Boreal forest, remote location, Lake Superior, moose and other animals. Copper mining, ecosystem. Unique island ecosystem which allows for excellent outdoor opportunities. It is our greatest idea! I believe the moose population on the mainland could be in danger, so this might be important to study them. Unique ecosystem. To preserve the wilderness.  To preserve our moose and wolves as wildlife.  An island wildlife. Wilderness. Wilderness values. 0 Its ability to preserve the species that occupy it.  Also, it provides a good experience to novice ----. Wilderness area. Preserved natural beauty and history of area.  Wonderful Rangers! It's unique location and features provides a true back to nature experience with no phone, TV or internet connections. Protect moose/wolf populations(?). The history behind the island.  What it used to be/hold in early 1900s.  Beautiful sightseeing. Preserving the moose. Island eco system. Love that we preserve these beautiful spaces. Preserving an eco system with complex relationships between species.  I wish there were more wolves. Unique natural view. Scenic beauty, remote biosphere, wildlife, history. First time visitor to National park and very impressed with the quality of services, beauty of nature. It's an excellent example of an isolated eco system. Pristine beauty and abundant. Untouched wilderness. Preserve a pristine wilderness for future generations. Remoteness and scenic beauty. Preserved beauty-untouched and precious! Preservation of wilderness unique to this island and region.  The remoteness makes it special.  Moose/wolf relationship fascinating-bringing in a few more involved. The ecosystem, isolation, and natural beauty. Preservation of nature. The wolf/moose dynamic.  We have the opportunity to be stewards of a pristine ecosystem-expedite the reintroduction of wolves! Preservation of natural resources and lack of cell service! Pristine and isolated island. Unique experience. Park was great but the crowds were incredible.  Need twice the campsites and those would not so impact the wilderness, tired of chasing sites. There is nothing like it in the world. This park is one of the only truly wilderness areas in the nation.  It is somewhere to go to escape everyday life. Preserving nature that represents the past before America colonized the U.S.. This park is a natural phenomenon that offers sights and wildlife like no other area in the U.S.. Preservation of nature and all aspects.  Unique landscape and biological habitation. Protecting wilderness and nature in an original, God created state!  Keeping out pollution.  Loved the clean water. To allow humans to enjoy the natural beauty of the wilderness and to learn from its beauty. Unlike any other.  Appreciate the small number of visitors compared to other parks.  Keep the Impact law!  Keep it wild! It helps show how some areas of land were before man altered them. IT protects the wilderness that is shrinking so fast in other parts of America. Unique habitat of moose, life in waters and islands. True wilderness, remote, beautiful clean lake. A pristine natural setting exists across much of the islands very few trails disturb the setting. Preserving wilderness from developers. Wilderness and Wolves. Ecosystem impacted by Lake Superior. A former playground for the privileged, hard scrabble life for commercial fisherman and a rather sacred location for the indigenous. Wolves and moose living in balance.  Introduce wolves as has been done in Wyoming Idaho, Minnesota. Moose. It's very significant.  There aren't many national parks in the Eastern part of the nation where all the population is. A rugged, wild island far removed from society. This park is a chance to escape and enjoy nature.  It is one of the few places to truly get away and enjoy time with family and friends. Isolated wilderness. Very high. To preserve one of the few true wilderness in the US and island from the modern technology era. Commitment to preserving natural environment. An opportunity for a nation, immerse in technology and civilization, to experience true nature. Preserve nature, protect an incredible island. Pure wilderness, accessible to vistas from the Midwest. Wilderness area, little development; nature preservation. This park was a beautiful place to enter the world of the wilderness. The fact that is truly a wilderness park. Natural history from first copper to natural beauty.  Delicate relationship between predator and prey (Wolves and moose). In middle of Lake Superior. Wilderness, wildlife, and mining history are the national significance.  There are outstanding opportunities for recreation. Wilderness area that allows human use.  The opportunity to continue the long on going wolf and moose research.  Wolves on the Isle Royale are part of the wilderness.  Bring back the wolves! To better peoples understanding of the natural world.  Also as a preservation tool to aid in the appreciation of the env. It is a rural place for hikers to explore and camp at while enjoying the views and maybe even see a moose! Remoteness creates a very rugged feeling.  Very great to meet people from across the country and internationally. It's beauty, the wolf/moose research. Historical value, biological value due to unique eco systems and animals (especially wolf, moose interactions), scientific. Very significant. It's still one of the most preserved places left in the US. It is one of the last wild islands in the great lakes with wonderful wildlife. Historical wilderness area-significant because Isle Royal is now as it was ages ago. Preserving this great place. Unique geological and wildlife ""features"", also shore and ---- waters. A reminder of how untamed and wild this entire country used to be. A place apart with unique human and natural history.  A small pocket of ---- and Eastern hardwood forest. The natural beauty, need for adventure, and effort created to get to Isle Royal all make it a place of national significance. It allows people to get a taste of beautiful eco systems, find ways to connect to the outdoors and look deeply into the wilderness within them. Preservation of Michigan land. Preservation of the upper Michigan wilderness, which is my home. Quiet escape, ----, wilderness, nature. Wildlife; large unspoiled natural preserve. Learned how to run from moose. Wilderness area.  Lake Superior scenery. Wilderness, wolves-don't let them disappear. The significance of wolves and moose. Truly a wilderness experience to the degree you wish. The protection of this amazing natural resource and ecosystem. Nature and wilderness very nice, BUT please don't FORGET THE HISTORICAL/CULTURAL value as well.  DON'T TEAR DOWN THE REMAINING OLD BUILDINGS! Experience wilderness, recreation. Remoteness. Wolves and moose. The park is an isolated location that offers a great place to observe interactions between wildlife. Remoteness, history, mining, fishing, hiking (in that order). Untouched wilderness. Unique land area, peaceful, wilderness.  I love ALL the national parks. Solitude-quiet-reflection-adventure. Was wilderness before all the trails. Island ecosystem and history. The national significance to this park of the wolf and moose interactions. I think that the national significance of this park is how it is so untouched and how it's preserved for future generations. It is still preserved and natural, how nature should be. Very remote-off the grid-and TOTALLY QUIET. Wildlife habitat/preservation area. The fact it has remained a wilderness, and not developed. It is a very unique ecosystem, and a rare piece of untouched wilderness that spans a whole island. Pristine island wilderness, outside civilization, wolf/moose population, untouched beauty. A remote park where visitors can experience wilderness and relative solitude. Of great significance.  It's absolutely necessary for human beings to commune with nature in its pristine form. Geology, boreal forest, water, pure air, pure water, wildlife. Wolf/moose study, isolated ecosystem which park does superb effort retaining. Wildlife preservation, location. Location, unique. The rugged beauty, the uniqueness of the island, moose/wolf (just two left) interaction. Natural resources. Ecological maintenance of historic mining and fishing site. Wilderness area, identification, wildlife and quiet environment, loved it for cost-poor. Importance of wolf/moose study. Beautiful display of what the earth's surface has been through and what the northern part of our country was like.  Gives generations the opportunity to experience it. Keeping it natural. Largely untouched and very remote. Pristine wilderness. Remote, mystic wilderness.  Rugged.  Back to our roots.  Reminds us of what's important.  Stepping back in time. Representative of lifestyle of Voyageurs (without canoe).  Representative of northern climate flora and fauna.  Great hiking. The chance for citizens to escape into the wild and preserve a microcosm of an ecosystem for future study and enjoyment. The park is spectacular!  Preserving the various historic uses of the island is important for all visitors. The preservation of the environment, beauty and natural history. This park is incredibly unique, particularly regarding its ecosystems and species.  It allows for a true wilderness experience in MI, and I love it. Unspoiled wilderness beautiful. Wilderness. Remote, wilderness, undeveloped unique. Preserve some wilderness in every state.  This park is even ore special due to absence of city/subdivisions all around boundary. The mineral diversity of the island. Very little human influence on the island. An isolated ecosystem. Preserving wilderness, isolation, wildlife, cultural heritage of ancient people. Untouched ""oasis"" of nature. The preservation of forests, animals and peace land has to offer us. Awesome part of our beautiful country.  Significant park to help humanity about conservation. Remoteness, isolation and pristine quality of natural features. Solitude. This park is exceptional for its beauty, but also because of the safety provided because there are no bears. An excellent example of our northern forests as they existed before Europeans arrived.  In another 100 years, it may be fully restored. It is one of the few places in the world where you can still truly be one with nature. The remote wilderness, geologic history, and the wolf and moose study. It is a very isolated island, with well preserved wildlife that everyone should have the opportunity to see. It's one of the few places that is so remote and isolated in American and it makes it a very special place. Preserving the land and water for future generations. Wilderness, dark sky!  Remote. Isle Royale National Park-significance:  isolation.  Love it.  Pure air, pure water. Created jobs of lasting value and great significance during the time of Depression.  Knowing where you are is almost untouched land and literally flourishing nature, it's breath taking, like being on the island can take you back hundreds of years. It's one of the places we go to enjoy our nature and share with the world. The remote and beauty of nature. Ongoing research, continued wilderness, beauty. Isolation of whole island.  Non-motorized. Natural beauty and an opportunity to escape modernity. Untouched wilderness and wildlife. It's a natural beauty and serves to show what the wilderness of North America looks like. A grand piece of history. Loons. Unique park-the isolation. I think this is a very natural area.  I am glad it is being preserved. Park provides a pristine example of our natural resources. At the top! A wilderness experience and chance to experience an unspoiled micro-environment. The moose. It is a wildlife preservation and outdoor exploration keeping in tradition of the American experience. It is beautiful, untouched land. It is so relaxing, remote, and pretty.  So unique. The natural beauty of the park is something everyone should enjoy.  But then, would the natural beauty remain? Its isolation and beauty. It was on our bucket list.  So it was significant to us. Pristine, isolated nature. Very unique environment. Wilderness."
293,Mammoth Cave NP,MACA,"Unique cave system. Diversity, historic. Spectacular cave. It is a historical landmark and preserves history (the past). Largest cave system in world. Largest cave in the world. Captivates the need for exploration. One of the largest cave systems in the U.S.. The ecological and historical uniqueness of the park. Natural history. Very high. Cave. The cave and the history within the cave. Preserving a natural resource. History. Exploring the wonders underground. It's a great learning and exploration experience for kids and adults. The history and how it's been preserved.  Save our history! Cave tours. High-wonderful history. The case provide nitrates to make gunpowder during the Civil War. Pursuing a national treasurer. Choice to see the land at a natural state.  No industrialization. The geological information it provides and displays. Great history and American sense of adventure. Very significant. To visit the beautiful caves.  And to have a Midwestern national park.  Intro to caving-wow!  GREAT tour! Like the Grand Canyon, it can't all be taken in but Mammoth cave and truly grand. The cave. Unique atmosphere and geological sites.  Interesting history-American Indians, gun powder made in 1812, local community history. Historical foundation of American. More of a world significance.  The Mammoth Cave system is a natural treasure to whole world. Very important-have enjoyed coming here for years!  Have brought lots lot family and friends.  Have seen a lot of good changes-don't like ""young guides"" prefer rangers. The largest cave system in the world...LOVE having a National Park in my home State! Historical production of Salt Peter during war. Natural beauty and learning about nature. Longest cave in the world. Extremely important, Science/environment rates with front parks, Yellowstone and Yosemite. The cave system. To educate the public on the historic value and the state park. Education, preservation. Yes. None. Nature of it's best. The importance of wild life, ecology to the nation and indeed to the world, to help ----. Excellent. Geologic study.  The creation of the earth and evidence of the flood of Noah. Education preservation. To show how life is full of exploration and geological history to figure earth's time and how people impact it. Caves and tours. It makes America great! The cave system is a national treasure and must be preserved. To maintain the ""special"" natural beauty of our nation. Help pressure and show case the beauty of America. Yes, very much a national treasure!! Yes. The respect of nature here is wonderful. Showing the natural beauty and importance of nature. We love this place-all that it offers! Historical usage; scientific-geological. Beautiful resource that should be protected and preserved for all to see. Deep ---- with Bishop and his tour. Historically preserve nature. Good tourist attraction. EVERY national park IS important. I'm not deep.  The caves were cool. History and size. One of a kind place to be preserved for future generations. Very significant! Cultural and natural history or unique. History, educational experience. It is preserved for generations. The nature. The sheer magnitude of the park and the vast and delicate eco system under ground it's our duty to preserve it. Too tired from tour to think about it.  Sorry. Very big cave. Ranger did a good job reminding us (---- ---- ----) of the people who created paths; then were called to war.  Also appreciate spirit of discovery. Great. Unique. Showing the history of the Caves. Salt ---- mining, wildlife conservation natural beauty. The history. Geological education.  American and Native American history. The fascinating beauty underground. Our Nation's beauty. Largest caves in the city. This would be totally commercialized if not preserved as a NP.  Ultimately it would be destroyed and future generations would not be able to examine. Great for families. Just to see the wonder's of God. Mammoth Cave represents a sense of adventure.  It is a unique experience that ---- people of all ages and backgrounds. It is a natural wonder that all should enjoy. Great opportunity to learn history and explore geology. It's use in creation at gun powder and it's southern cultural value. I think the caves are a wonderful natural exhibit to witness and its important for the public to know about them. Cave. Historic landmark. Cultural and historical assets. Natural wonders. American Indian and the largest cave system in the world. It's great. Largest cave in the world, amazing stories connected with it. Largest in US of it's kind. Represents many different nationalities that discovered and worked the caves. Largest cave in the world. Provides history, beauty and geography for people of all ages. Historic significance. History/geology. Old, big, carnivorous ---- cave. to show the natural wonder of our land and the history of our people, it gives us a sense of nationhood. Unique. It's a great example of peoples love for adventure and natural wonders. Important for everyone to have a chance to experience the cave. Important. Largest cave in world, many diverse learning opportunities. Unique cave system.  Needs protection. History. The ---- of the cave during the war with gun powder. Environment, history. Geological natural beauty. Longest cave. Outstanding!  A must see! World class cave system with supporting ecosystem. ---- Caves and history of the information on history of the caves via Native Americans and War of 1812. It contains the country's longest cave system. Looks cool. Keeps our history alive. The historical significance of the cave and its history.  Happy its preserved. Largest cave in the world. 1. It's a natural wonder.  2. It deepens our understanding of the War of 1812, the Civil War, and civil rights.  3. Broadens our understanding of culture in general. Providing the salt peter to make gunpowder to aid the war effort.  Utilization of slaves. Unique natural feature. We wanted to learn about the area.  We feel we learned a lot and enjoyed everything in the national park.  Loved the cave tours."
294,Salinas Pueblo Missions NM,SAPU,"History. The meeting of different cultures. History of Native American's. How early the Europeans and mission-Aries brought their values and beliefs to North America. The origins of the people who were here long before Columbus ""discovered"" America. Very significant piece of history.  Valuable information. This park is extremely valuable a link to our past! Shows interaction between ---- Americans and European ---- first contact and later. It demonstrates the heritage of the area. This park tells us of the story of a group of people who were unfairly treated, whose homes were destroyed, whose religion was marginalized with little acceptance. Learning about Salinas Culture in New Mexico and how Native Americans traded with others in various parts of the U.S. Absolutely-it is wonderful to learn and preserve our history. We should do more! History of how early Spanish arrivals impacted native American culture and way of life. It's historical value for indigenous culture and architecture/art. Yes! The sites at this park have beautiful Pueblo ruins that are invaluable in showing how the native peoples of NM used to live. The preservation of an important and interesting part of the history of the southwest and the opportunity it provides visitors to learn that history. Best Ruins in New Mexico.  Well preserved. To learn how different cultures interacted with one another and how they affected one another. Much earlier community living than East Coast, USA.  More organized. It preserves and educates public about history of New Mexico. Ruins. It examines a key part of our national history and identity.  It is essential. Just shows us a page of our collective past. Ancient buildings.  Connection between cultures. The mission ruins are unique because they were not altered after initial use.  The pueblo ruins are noted and visible also. One of the ecological settlement sites in the U.S.. No one expects the Spanish Inquisition! Documents interactions between Pueblo Indians and Spanish. Preservation of the Ruins from Missionaries and to remember the transition of Native Americans. To teach and show us how life was-history of area. To understand and learn about the Spanish-Indian conflict and relations. The ---- and Spanish and religious influence up on our nation was magnificent. Visited: 06/11/16. Frank expression of history of indigenous people. Spanish heritage among American history along with Native American history. Preservation of historical sites. Preserves historical ruins. Important to preserve the ancient culture. Keep heritage alive. Earliest history of US appreciation of Southwest struggles for survival. Informs above native people, wonderful! One of the few remaining examples of missions and early settlements. This is a beautifully maintained park, fabulous site.  Interpretation is very good. History education beauty. Very significant. The differences between 2 cultures and how the adapted to ----. History is very important.  We need to preserve and learn from our history. 1 ---- 10 ---- =8. The history of the region. Indian and Spanish culture history and prehistory in a ---- society. Historical and cultural perspective. Very important-highlights the ---- of native American groups (pueblo, Apache, Comanche_ and early Hispanic ----. Some people were here before us and we forget. Absolutely!  We need to preserve our history. Beginning of New Mexico and ---- with the people. Cultural history. Cultural history. Cultural presentation. Education of native American culture and significance. Fantastic history preserved. Indian history a Spanish history respect is shown for the past escape from current events. Preservation of significant western history. Preserving the history of the pueblo people who lived here. Really important to understand our history and the ---- of the area. The layers of colonialism are very important for our history. The mix of native and Spanish cultures. Very important! It tells how national expansion (both pre-USA and USA) impacted this this region's nature and culture for good and bad. To learn about the history of the Native Americans and the architecture. History of Spanish/Indian coexistence. It preserves an important story about two cultures, Native American and Spanish, whose history world otherwise be lost. Learn about the Native American way of living. Our history of New Mexico.  I liked this place a lot. Need a park guide for ----. Important American history that tells of ---- and Spanish ----. Most fascinating ---- in New Mexico, well worth preserving for future generations. Quite significant to learn of the early people in the U.S..  Not enough in ----. Early contact and cosmological ---- of indigenous and European beliefs. Fabulous park!  Smart, helpful ranger! It tells the history of the region and gives historical background for the last centuries. Midwest history. Preservation of original culture heritage. This Park is finished. Showing old architecture and Church. A great opportunity to learn about what should be taught in school. History. Part of the history of establishment of New Mexico. The early culture of people who lived here.  Their way of life, religion, and history is important. Enormous-it highlights ---- life over centuries and Spanish colonial constructs-it's an intact ""slice of time."" Has historical significance as it represents a ""---- in time"" to show how pueblo Indians lived before the Pueblo Revolt. Learning the realities of previous cultures. Pre-pioneer history told equally from native and ---- perspective. The history of the Pueblo Indians and Spaniards. Good history lesson. It helps keep history alive. Maintenance of important cultural monument. Lasting examples of how early North American people housed ---- after European ----. Cultural and historic.  Lots of emphasis on Spanish, would like to see more into on Pueblo history and sites. Important to study culture and history of this nation.  Enjoyed my visit. The history of the Salina's Pueblo Missions that existed in NM 300 years ago."
295,Fort Union Trading Post NHS,FOUS,"Important outpost in Indian Territory.  Major point of contact between whites and Indians. 0 The significance of this park is that it was the beginning of global trade in the USA. Great presentation of impact of river, trade, relationships of different people and connections with other parts of the world.  Walmart of the 1800's! A place at the confluence of the Yellowstone and Missouri rivers where Indians could trade furs for supplies. Learning about the trade and native relations.  Appreciation for nature and history. Absolutely. Fur Trade, Indians. Please keep these pieces of history open so all generations stay connected to the history of all people and Nations of U.S.A. Native American/European Relations. Very important to early history. Provides information to all on the importance of our past and how we arrived at where we are today.  History is a great foundation for future knowledge. Keep history alive. The Regional history.  Showing children what life looked like. Tells a different story not heard often.  I learned very much from the Park Rangers who told us about the Fort. Very important focus on era of Trade/Commerce. Our history, the things that shaped our Country. History.  Next to teach my three children about the past. Part of our growth. Fort Union opened the West. The extractive corporate fur industry was the first and most devastating capitalist force in the ---- of North America land and people and deserves to be much better understood. Important to understanding expansion of the West, Indian Tribal Relationships, expansion of trade in upper Mid West; extent of trade network. First commerce (----) in Midwest. The history of the area. Showing what life was like during fur trading years. Exposure to relevance of TRANSPORTATION to eventual development of area. The park helps to educate the young ---- trading and Native Americans. To teach others. The history of this site is incredible-so were maintained.  Very impressed. This was for decades a key location where Europeans and Indians interacted peacefully and where Eastern capital me the fur trade."
296,Glacier NP,GLAC,"It represents the best of America. Scenery, remoteness, wildlife. Natural beauty, preservation of habitat and wildlife, ecological, geological diversity. Preservation of natural resources for recreation and wildlife. The sheer natural beauty. The glaciers and ---- on the color of the lakes. Very important. Geology richness and forest/wild life refuge plus camping opportunities. Geological, flora and fauna, Native American interp. excellent. Immeasurable value! Scenic and natural beauty.  Glacier is the most beautiful park I've visited and I'm from Colorado and have visited parks in AK and HI.  Amazing! One of the great natural and relatively undisturbed regions of the US.  It is the natural world as it should be the wildlife are the parks greatest asset. Preserving wilderness. Still a beautiful portrait of the untouched Western landscape!  Beauty in its purest form! Unique to America, example of high-Alpine Rockiest ecology and wildlife exposure. Geology of glaciers, environment, wilderness, beauty. Natural beauty with limited access. Last safe haven for large predators and one of the most beautiful places on earth. The outstanding beauty of God's creation that is provided for our enjoyment. To let all people see the beauty of nature that God created. To preserve the wilderness from commercial exploitation. Geological history, natural beauty, wildlife, opportunity for people to explore and learn and appreciate the beauty, majesty and history. To preserve and protect what God has provided. Preserving nature. Glacier park preserves, hosts and displays the GRANDEST of America's natural places.  THANK YOU for your service! BRAVO!  The preservation and conservation of beautiful, inspirational, recreational and spiritual park areas for all generations to enjoy and for the consideration of wildlife and their habitats. Not only is Glacier beautiful and still not crowded, especially if you hide and stay in the bad country, but it shows climate change in a very dramatic way. Beauty of nature. Preserve beautiful landscape.  Preserve wildlife. Essential.  But our 18 yr son agrees. To preserve our heritage, wildlife, eco system. Many of the remaining FEW glaciers in lower 48.  Proof of the cycle of earths warming but, enhanced by people and industry etc. Beautiful, lots of wild life. To show people the beauty of nature, simple the exposure and opportunity to disconnect. The park is a symbol of America's beauty.  It is an opportunity for individuals and families to experience nature at it's best! I don't know the significance to the Nation, but to me, the beauty and awe of the Glacial Rockies is significance.  I've been to Glacier four times and still have so much more to see. ""Crown of the Continent"". Glaciers!  Also just an exceptionally beautiful area. Preservation of scenic beauty and ecological monitoring. We had never been to Glacier before.  It was FANTASTIC!  We are so grateful to the vision of so many people to make this open to us. Very high.  This park is definitely National park quality. It's unique natural beauty and the Indian history and heritage.  (It seems the Indian connection is still mainly a foot note to the native education). Beauty, power, majesty one of God's most beautiful creations, pride. It's significance is changing (but not diminishing in importance) due to climate change we have less glacial mass than on our visit 15 years ago. Protect and preserve a unique landscape and animal population; the BEST hiking park in the country. The park has unique glaciers and an abundance of large mammal life difficult to find anywhere else in the U.S.. Seeing the glaciers that have declined due to temperatures rising and all the animals. Native American history, climate change classroom. The beauty and nature that it has and has preserved. Beacon of country is beauty, care for environment and provides opportunity for U.S. and world citizens of all ages and stripes to mingle and break barriers. The beauty of the mountains, glaciers, forests, rivers, wildlife. Unique natural settings. Saving species; international cooperation in Canada, preserve natural lands. A pioneer in the establishment of national parks. Showcases the beauty of our country puts everyone on an equal standing before the awesome natural wonder. See the glaciers before they are gone. It provides a glimpse into the past and a look at rare landscapes found in few other places.  It represents conservation. The glacial mountain formations are unspoiled and unsurprised.  They need to be protected from economical exploration. Social and environmental and educational. To preserve the natural terrain of the involved area. It is a good lab to show the effects of climate change, the loss of glaciers. This park is, as most, a living testament and breathing reminder of the importance of unadulterated nature. Glacier is an exceptional example that highlights the need for the awareness of climate change and our American duty to protect our environment. Beauty preserved, strength is mountains/earth respected. Preservation of natural state of nature."
297,Cape Cod NS,CACO,"The highest. Preserves the dunes and seashores. Getting citizens to see the ocean and its significance. Maritime and natural history preservation. Very significant.  Natural history and cultural history (old Coast Guard station, outermost house area). It a great Park.  Very pristine. Open Coastline, undeveloped. Conserve Seashore. Early history of America.  Science interest with the Horseshoes. Protect land. Marconi information; beach grass; clean beaches; aquatic life. Ecological!  Nature-instruction, preservation and habitats. History. William Clark was engaging and very knowledgeable. Unspoiled nature beauty/history. Preservation of this natural landscape and wild life. Preserving the beauty of the land. Very significant national park.  Keep it pristine! Beauty, history, ----. Diverse ecosystem is a true treasure. It's beauty and that's it's protected and the public can appreciate it. The establishment of wireless transmission of telegraphy was integral to modern communications. Very significant. Beautiful part of the country.  Very happy it is protected and well maintained. Preserving nature and history for future generations. Allows persons to visit their heritage. One of the great engineering successes of all time (ever). I am upset that the park service is **** Eastham taxpayers. Environmental and recreational use. Preservation of lands. Conservation of land. Native preservation. The availability for all to use! The beautiful sights and opportunities to travel around/go to beach, esp. for locals. Has kept its natural beach area. Preservation of the Cape Cod coastline. Untamed wildlife (whales, seals, fish); access to areas of large population. Trying to impart importance of conserving ---- nation's natural resources with ----. Comfortable for people use-all people. Beauty and scientific advances. Great scenery, ocean access and historical gift from JFK. So good to be near where the outermost house was-all should go. Good recreation for the public. To maintain nature. Always tell co-workers to come to Cape Cod. It's awesome. Excellent. Nature at it's best. A beautiful spot to enjoy nature and the ocean that is unencumbered by development. Low cost outdoor use for all. It is pretty.  More national lakes and sea shores. Awesome beach. It is the jewel in the crown of National Parks and a wonderful tribute to JFK's vision and hard work to establish CCNS. Preservation of natural marine environment, history of the US started here. Natural resource preservation and clean, unfettered access to Atlantic Ocean. ---- Beauty, recreation for all to enjoy. Major significance. National seashore is a true treasure. Beautiful protected seashore, the best! Very nice. An incredibly important component of Cape Cod and my experience. Preserving valuable seashore and marsh areas. The beach, best of Cape Cod. Invaluable education, recreation and ecologically. It is natural beauty that should always be protected and enjoyed. Extremely significant. Preservation. Conservation of beach and wildlife. Marconi Beach. Twenty dollars! What the ****? We need to keep these parks open.  They are a great teaching tool for the next generation. Beautiful, unspoiled beauty. Natural habitats protected and maintained.  NOT commercialized. To preserve natural beauty of seashore. Very impressive, limited ---- ----. Historic seashore area. Beautiful seashore protected. Such an asset to the Community. Very important. Highly significant. Beauty of a national beach. It is great that the land was able to be saved and it is not built up, very peaceful! Very significant, especially to the common man without riches, it has leveled the playing field! Beauty. The beautiful scenery and the wildlife habitats. Large protected, undeveloped seashore. Preservation.  Enjoying nature in so many ways-biking, walking, etc..  This ocean area is amazing.  Unique to the USA parks. It is unique, one of a kind and irreplaceable.  A gift to the nation and worth sharing. Preserved seashore; shore bird nesting and staging area. The beauty of Cape Cod seashore and surrounding dunes that otherwise would be destroyed and over built given the opportunity. Preservation of the beauty and at the ---- Preserving the light house to give us the flavor and significance these structures played in shipping industry is astounding. Great. Culture, history, beauty, natural ecology. Preserving beautiful nature. Bird nesting protection. Very nice. Preserve seashore for natural habitat!  Thank you! Beauty. It helps people from all over the world see the beauty of the area. Preservation of natural Cape Cod and the ecological system. Beautiful historic place. We must preserve these perishable spaces.  The pilgrims landed here! Nation began here. The wildlife. Thankful for the preservation and accessibility. The stunning coast and preserving dunes. None other like it in world.  They protect the dunes. Save the ----. Beauty, history, climate. Great national resource. National seashore. So much history-pilgrims, Indians, salt and cod industries, Portuguese, etc.  Also so important to have nature close to people. Restoration of natural beauty. Historical, scenic, informative. It preserves the breathtaking natural beauty of many miles of coastline and the peaceful ratio of native to development. Beauty. Untouched habitat, ----, coastal life. It helps preserve the natural beauty of this environment and allows for historical explanation of the area's and the nations maritime and maritime/colonial era's. It's open to everyone.  It's a unique natural resource. Provide nature to citizens. To preserve the seashore and this sensitive environmental area.  Thank you, President Kennedy and NPS!! Pilgrims. Beautiful natural environment. The diversity and natural beauty of Cape Cod. Lighthouse relocation made us realize how much erosion is occurring on a daily basis. Awesome trails and views. Historical-preservation. The beautiful seashore and natural state of most of the area. Preservation of Seashore and National pride re:  Pilgrims history. Historical importance and preserving that. Protecting animals and wildlife through preservation and education. Beauty.  Wildlife.  Natural world.  And the preservation of such. A natural resource of beauty and historic excellence. To preserve special places for generations to come! Preserve for our kids future use, learn about the environment and seashore. National treasure one of the most beautiful places in the world. Significant because of eco system-so special in so many ways.  Also for recreation. For over 30 years I have been enjoying CCHS only reservation is the state of trails, particularly ""red maple swamp trail"". It maintains an historic site (where the pilgrims made land fall).  It preserves a habitat important to the environment. Beautiful dunes and scenery. Beautiful scenery and beaches. Beautiful landscape. The ability for all to experience pristine, natural beaches, free of commercial gain. A place of natural beauty and ecological balance. More parks."
298,Nicodemus NHS,NICO,"Very good-high!! It tells the story African Americans when they come to the plains for a better life during the reconstruction. Good. It was one of the few all-black community set-ups after the Civil War. Very important to the father of all Americans. History-our history! Very important. Very important to remember your black history. It highlights the first black community after the Civil War west of the Mississippi-historical significance. Gives me more information upon my culture. My family history. History of a group of people. Huge-this documents how we responded to reconstruction and unique aspects of the black experience in the U.S.. Keep history alive. Recalling history. It is important to show how any relatives and other ex-slaves were able to find this place and make it home. Good to see and hear about black people migrating and making effort to establish themselves. History, culture, and a symbol of the human spirit! African-American history is absent in school books and must be heard. Black history! History of freed slaves. To teach the struggle and strength after reconstruction the African-Americans faced. This park is vital as it exemplifies the continuing struggle of African Americans from enslavement through today's Black Lives Matter. Important part of Kansas history. Black heritage/history. Black history. Great. Important understanding of post American civil war ---- American history. Excellent!  Really interesting history of freed slaves after civil war.  Very educational. This area represents an important time in American history. Very significant. Park Ranger was helpful sharing the story of Nicodemus.  Very significant park. Black history! It is very wonderful. Homesteading, Black history. Historical, family. Very important to have parks describing the African-American history and experience. Kansas was welcoming to all. Learning what it was like for the blacks in the 1870s in Kansas."
299,Canyon de Chelly NM,CACH,"The history and beautiful sights. Great historical importance.  More info on the history of those who settled in the park pre 1700 would be very valuable. Part of our history and culture. INCREDIBLY beauty, evocative of the past, still relevant because natives still use it. It's beauty and historic significance and interest. A great way to see how early Native people lived in this area.  Very significant that some still live and farm in the canyon. It is of the utmost importance that such sites be preserved and maintained as a record of the peoples who lived there. Very important.  Park does an important task of keeping Native American culture fresh in the minds of guests Testimony to early Indian settlers. It's natural beauty. To appreciate majestic beauty of U.S. land and increase understanding of Native American Culture. Understanding the story of the Navajo people and the ancient ones. To see and understand the Navaho community-their farming, ----, and people. To never forget the past.  July, 2016. Historical value of ancient people in U.S..  Amazing what they were able to do in hostile landscape. It is part of American history!  It is also a beautiful part of our national landscape. Geological and historical/archeological.  Five cultures interacted in positive and destructive ways. Yes. Preservation of sacred and natural habitat of the ancient native people. Native heartland, national treasure, protection from development, no fracking! Protection of ancestral and present cultures and environment.  It is a treasure of the Navajo (----) to share with the world. Memory of how the early people lived and what happened to him, as well as the fantastic money! Shows an important piece of history for part of our nation's population. One of the majority of us should be more educated about. Brilliant vision of the ancient culture of the first people, still here and proud.  Beautiful to see the Navajo People. The Navajo (Dine) story needs to be told, and the park plays a significant role in this. Beautiful site! Preservation of tribal resources and history. Remembrance/explanation of Navaho history/cultural traditions.  Preservation of ruins and scenery. Nature's beauty and historical significance. This was excellent.  Guide Super ""DJ"" from Thunderbird lodge. To keep Americans up to date on our heritage.  In addition I was impressed with number of visitors from other countries. Indian culture very interesting.  Tour guide Jerald excellent.  Made 3 hr jeep ride trip we'll never forget! Education, primarily.  Recreation of a distinct quality, too.  Preservation is last-necessary, but education (unity), recreation (engagement) are first. The historical events that took place and the artifacts that remain.  We are very happy to be here!  We will return. It's a great opportunity for people to see how people lived a long time ago. Navajo culture and history. Preserve history for future generations. It is a living park, people still farm and live inside. Indian craft, jewelry, NATURE of course. Learning about NAVAJO culture. Heritage of the Indian people. Would like to keep it preserved. Parks need to be saved. Very good.  Learned a lot. Critical.  It tells a story of Navajo and other native peoples that needs to be told, plus the NPS partners with the ---- to ensure that this place is protected from looters, etc.. Preservation of history. Tribal heritage and culture. It's the history of the Navajo. Historic, geologic, cultural. A wonderful generational, educational opportunity for all. Excellent! I don't know what this means, but it's great. Historical, geological. Its natural beauty and the long, continuous history of the native peoples. The connection of he ancient peoples who lived in the canyon and the modern-day people living there now. This park speaks to my desire to learn the Navajo culture.  I've been coming for several years, so it's a little at a time.  There's so much. To preserve Navajo culture as remains of ancestral pueblo culture. Very good. I believe this park is significant because it provides visitors with a part of the United States history that has been forgotten.  This park has cultural history that needs to be restored in society. Home for the Navajo Indians. A wonderful glimpse into our Native Americans and their history. It is wonderful preserving the ruins. I believe that this park is very significant to our nation because it offers all American's a chance to learn so much about Navajo nation. It is important to recognize the culture, history and geography of this region.  It teaches us about away of life that respects nature. Yes. Geological, cultural, historical, need more about Navajo/US government ""interaction"" in 1864. Human history that goes back thousands of years. Beautiful canyon with lots of human history. Amazing landscapes. Cultural history. The overlooks and history. Navajo/Hopi/Anasazi/Bekmrr history, preservation of their dwellings, and incredible beauty of canyon as both national treasure and current home for Najavo's. It is a cultural record of native people. Early people's influence on the terrain, how they lived affects the present! Importance of nature/ecology. The views. 1. History of original people.  2. Incredible vistas. Native American culture. The living residents in the park. A look into history! Everything was awesome. Learning the history of Navajo and ancient tribes. Most inspirational place I've been and come back for inspiration.  History of habitation and layers of culture and habitation in architecture and landscape. Natural beauty, ancient history. Preservation of natural wonders. Teach about Navajo culture, land etc. It's service in protecting and preserving cultural significance of sites and structures of native people. History-both ---- and Pueblo.  Outstanding natural area. Sheer beauty of the geological formations and history of the people who live here. Amazing ---- and human history. Excellent. It's significance can be measured by the great national contributions made by Native Americans.  That history is important and historically ----. The Navaho and their very ---- is historically important to our understanding of our nation and what ----. Gives a good understanding of relationships of ---- to Navajo history. To see amazing Canyon and old buildings. Important Native American history and spectacular scenery. Proof of people settling in the Southwest very long ago."
300,Pecos NHP,PECO,"False religion that enslaves.  Misrepresentation of Christ. American Native contributions and struggles. Documentation and preservation of pre-Angelo American.  Also on the Santa Fe trail. The ""battlefield"" was one of the reasons we visited but with no trail map it was a waste of time. Preservation of Native American and Pre Anglo culture/settlement. Cultural diversity representation-excellent learning trip. The historic Adobe Cathedral.  Farthest west Civil War battle. A nice surprise park. History of the Country. Important to know this history. Shows who has passed through this region. Historical-cultural. Preserving the history and culture of the SW Natives. Don't know. Helping people understand the ---- the ---- of ----. Preservation of first ----. Teaching history ----. The interaction of the Spanish and Pueblos.  The largest mission in the Southwest. The Pueblos are evidence of our beginnings as a nation.  They must be preserved. Very high. Shows us what area like before Spaniards invaded. Visitors can get an idea of the ancient Native civilization and settlements. Gives knowledge of our country's history gave an understanding of what the Indians experienced. Southwestern history needs more attention and this particular park is very good at presenting and preserving that history. Provides history of our country and native American history. The story of the Pecos Pueblo is the story of America! Dale was very friendly and inviting.  Michael did superb job on tour around the park.  Park essential to national heritage. The various cultural societies that established this region and how it changed and developed. Good history of southwest culture. Keeping cultural significance to TOTAL American history.  LIVE! Native American history preservation. So much occurred here; civil war, route 66, Indian/Spanish conflict, trade. Some of significant pueblo and Spanish church (---- ruins of each) useful for experiencing history of ----. To allow people to learn about the culture of ---- people and appreciate their gifts to New Mexico and to the world. To call attention to little known facet of American history. History. 0 Cultural history-in the growth and changes of US/North America.  Pecos served as an amazing junction in many ---- through out history! Cultural, historical. Historical ---- ---- ---- in US history.  Beautiful landscape and easily accessible for many people. History of the people that came before the Europeans and after.  Great time like of former inhabitants. Native or Aboriginal American plus Mexican and Spanish settler (in this case conqueror) history and culture.  Greatly appreciated. Preserve historically significant area. Preserve nature and culture. The historical value is profound!  As a teacher for NM history, I have never seen a monument of more significance or importance. The Pecos pueblo. Tremendous importance. Excellent!  Very important! Explains the growth of our nation.  This area being first under ---- ---- the later as a part of the ----. The historical knowledge gleaned and shared about the indigenous people who lived there. History of the people and their culture. Showing the natives had a large impact on our nation, as well as the Spanish. Description of life on Pueblo. Understanding Native American culture and civilization in the Southwest. Great historical significance. Major role in prehistory and history of the SW. To learn more about this culture. This park preserves a very important part of pre history and the influence of Spanish religious culture in the state. Value of history of ancient civilization. ---- and access to Santa Fe and the ----, and many conflicts that occurred near here.  Also, Pueblo culture and ruins. Excellent ability to fish very nice waters. High relevance to this region of the country. Preserving Indian culture and the battlefield. Indispensable. Crossroads of Indian cultures, as well as Santa Fe Trails, Civil War sites. Tells the story of a significant culture in the Southwest. Shows significant part of history of our Native Americans, including positive and negative effects of European influence. Understanding the history of Native Americans in this country is vital and so few parts provide that education. People need to learn history. To bring attention to and educate citizens of our heritage and that of other people's. As a long-range record of culture in North America, it has few equals.  Truly a gem! Absolutely. Any area that preserves such sacred land must be cherished. Great park! Historical significance. Historical value. History is always important.  It's our American culture.  History should be passed to young. History of American culture-excellent. History of the Indians. HUGE!  Historic value of the Pueblo and its trading background.  Historical significance of Spanish arrival and how Pueblos were affected.  Santa Fe Trail-Anglo ----.  Economic impact on all inhabitants.  ----. I learned a lot about history and archeology. Important historical site to remind us of tragedy of colonialism. Our citizens and their children need to see and study our history to know from where we came and about people that made our country! VERY important. View of history. History of NM. Excellent part of our history. Excellent site and center.  We had a great time! Great historical info. History and culture. Just amazing!  1200s. Key native cultures and the dawn of American civilization. Native American history will forever be important to this nation. Pre-historic living. The history of the ---- people ---- pueblo, the conflict between Spaniards, ----/ mission and Native people. Understand history of region and appreciate Native American college. Very interesting and educational learning about Spanish and Pueblo peoples. I'm Italian and I live near Pompeii and Ercolano. The story of the destruction of the Pueblos at the hands of the Spanish.  Tell the dark stories! Great historical voice on background of original habitants. Explaining the Pueblo people and Spanish missions. Historically significant from the native heritage, settlements, Spanish influence and even Civil War. Native perspective. History. Historical. Learning about pre-European people how they lived and used the land. Amazingly in small area deals with a large portion of US history. Cultural significance, historical significance. Educational history. Great lesson on the history and culture of North America. History heritage culture. It shows the history of the people who lived here years ago, excellent scenery too. Pecos Pueblo was one of the most significant settlements in the southwest US from the 1200's, to the 1600's and thus is an important part of US history. Shows the long history to culture in the area. The ---- of Pueblo/Spanish/and Anglo culture and history. The history here is important to preserve. This park predates the birth of our union and as so is an integral part of our history as a nation. To preserve history for future generation. Historic. Historical preservation. History ----. History. I think that the history of Native Americans is just as important as any other aspect of our history. Learning the history of the Pueblos and its people. Shows ----; effects of western ----, has Santa Fe, history of the Pueblos. Shows heritage and history which we all need to remember. The history of Pecoa. The park showed us the original history of America, and it was cool to be able to experience the kings in real life. To educate on the history of how we became who we are. It shows what the indigenous ---- people were ---- doing.  They built 5 ---- buildings before the Spanish arrived. The historical info about this area located throughout trails. Preserve history. It distinguishes various cultures, and their historical interactions-highly relevant to present. Preserving of our native heritage that is so fragile these days. Extremely significant especially of Native American history of Spanish influence. Major significance to American past cultures. Ruins and educational materials. To preserve the Puebloan and Spanish history. Historical, native peoples and settlers. The legacy of native society and the impact of Spanish colonization, plus Civil War turning point. Early native and Spanish culture and influences. History of Native Americans, US West, exploration. Extremely important to know about historical events (several) at this location that changed this nation. To learn and preserve our country's history. Connection to the past through the centuries of human habitation. Protecting VALUABLE history of our country. Cultural history. The native American sites. Preservation of native and Spanish cultures. Good historical value. Helps us preserve the history and tradition of people's land we now occupy. What a great opportunity to see the history and culture of the area. Native heritage is part of the U.S. culture-it should be told and made available to encourage positive attitudes towards different ""races"". Very significant and must be maintained for future generations. History! History. Importance of native American how long they've been here. It gives insight to Pueblo culture and how the culture was superceded by Spanish and Indian adversaries. Pueblo life, Spanish influence, archaeology. Showing the influx of Spain and religion to the indigenous people. This is an important location for historical and cultural preservation. Civil war history tour was fascinating, history of pueblos and the continents first peoples very key. It reflects the history of the beginning and development of man (different culture) at lodge ---- and primitive existence. Regarding pueblo culture. To show how early people lived and how their lives evolved as a result of new arrivals. Very significant. Integration of cultures leading to our global uniqueness. To showcase the history of this site through the different people who lived here. The church. Protects historic and cultural structures, and interpretation of events. Indian history. Very historical with actual buildings and artifacts. History of Pecos. It reminds about Pueblo people and their history. Cultural history.  I enjoyed because my family has a similar history. Where we come from is who we are.  In part, we come from here, just as much as from Plymouth Rock. Everyone should have access to America's cultural heritage, both historic and pre-historic, and seeing it as BANDS better than simply reading. Hands-on living history. Important history about Native Americans, Spanish, Anglos. Preserving the native cultures. Santa Fe Trail, Civil War battles, five hundred-plus years of recent history.  Huge national significance. Fantastic mix of history and cultures. Personally, I was ---- to enter a ----. To preserve our heritage, including the history of the Confederacy. Cultural history. Historical perspective of Pueblo Indians and Spanish intrusion. History, culture, education, diversity. It is a place where many cultures converged. It represents an important part of our history, and we need to remember the people who came before us. Tells the story of the Pecos, their way of life and challenges, and how they adapted. The park provides an historical guide to the life here, and the trail and museum are a terrific asset. To protect history. A look back in time.  ""A people that forget the past have no future."" Cultural artifacts.  Spirituality. Documenting historical period and the changes that took place. Great historical value. Great park. History of First Nations. Location. The important collision of civilization.  Absolutely essential in broadening understanding of American history. The mission, Kivas. To preserve the history of the indigenous people and area. Tremendous.  To see hundreds of years in the past is wonderful. Preserves some thing that would have been slowly lost otherwise, including pre-human, Indian, Spanish, and USA periods. Historical learning. A dual purpose-Civil War and Pueblo History. It's good to keep generations educated and informed. Wonderful information about Native Peoples' history and history of first European Settlers. Great place to save a part of our past. History, knowledge, CULTURE. Our Heritage! History-preservation. Pre-History, history, ----. Preservation of and information about our history is very important. To assist individuals across the world to learn about Pueblo cultures and their history as well as to get others outside. Historical preservation. Very good. Everyone benefits from knowing what came before.  New knowledge is not always the best. Great crossroads of Indian, Spanish, and English early history. National history. The people of many nationalities. To preserve the Pueblo culture, teach about the Spanish overtaking the Indians and Franciscan influence. Cultural significance."
301,Indiana Dunes NL,INDU,"It's beautiful place to learn about the flora and fauna of this rare eco system. Great spot near the ---- for recreation. The access and education about this unique area. The Great Lake. Wildlife and surrounding environment. It preserves a beautiful piece of Midwest/Lake Michigan culture and scenery. For future pleasure and appreciation of nature. Very important. I understand that preservation is a priority but ---- is neglected ----. Birthplace of ecology. Animals and nature. Preserving the natural lake shore. Helping to preserve natural places and things of historic or national ----. Great recreation area, clean beautiful area. For all family to get together for cook outs and family reunion. Unknown from out of town.  Found it by accident.  Love this place. ---- Wonderful. Ecotone. Everything is great. Natural habitat and important accomplished in ecology.  Appreciate the ---- ---- to ---- ---- ----. Nature/industry. Proof that ---- damage can be reversed and good can come out of the hard work to preserve the environment and eco system. Unique. The freshwater lakes that are special to our area. Sand dunes and beautiful lake wildlife. The lake front and dunes. Clean and organized. Dunes. A bog. A true bog is not a common ecosystem.  Its a national significance to be able to experience the life in a bog. Saving the dunes, save different unique landscapes. Sand dunes and surrounding ecosystem. Beach access-lake, dunes preservation. Very significant.  Cannot replace. Unique ecosystem.  Other bogs don't allow you access to the ----. It's an amazing sight to see and it is a natural occurrence that should be seen. It's a chance for ""city"" kids to experience nature and be part of nature.  It's affordable and clean and accessible. Wonderful access to Lake Michigan and suggest sign: you can see the curvature of the earth by comparing the top of the Lakeview sailing to the horizon of the lake. Pristine land. The water front. Opportunities to swim in the lake. Very important since it is the peoples. Yes!  To enjoy underground nature. The dunes and shoreline. The preservation of natural ----. Dunes, Savannah, richness of flora. Lake. National shoreline of Lake Michigan. A treasure to NWI! Freedom. A unique ecosystem worthy of preserving and enjoying both. Lakefront. Preservation of sand dunes-surrounding ecosystem. Conservation, engaging kids, unplugging. Beautiful beaches! Yes. Beach. Preserve our national resources and nature keeping wild places. Beautiful, rare learning opportunity. Kept land from ----. Unusual!  Pinhook Bog. Close to home good trails I use daily. Learning about a bog and the habitat surrounding it. The dunes are a unique beauty that everyone should see. Very high ----. Vitally needed in this area. More beach, unique to area. Everything about this park is good. Beautiful park, great historical site. I love it! I wish the parks with ---- ---- the steel ---- ---- ---- that ----. Preservation. Terrible to imagine a worker without it all. To preserve the Dunes. A real bog-Pinhook Bog. Learn about the Great ----. Preservation of dunes and lake shore. A long lakeshore in Indiana. Beautiful nature with a real bog.  Great hike, very unique.  As always I love the national parks.  Thanks! Lakeshore, worlds for dunes, trails, industry. The Bogs!  It's great to inform the public about nature and conservation. It's free of charge. Unique natural environment and connection to life here in the past. Good family fun. I am appreciative that they recognized this and preserved this for people to see.  Good variety of plant life. Protecting rare areas around large industrial polluters. Good trails, bench area, dunes, nice family recreation area. Education.  Our young people will learn a lot. Keeping a fantastic, diverse community alive and educating future generations. Protect a natural area in a developed region. Unique eco system along Lake Michigan shore line. The geological formations which are very unique in the Midwest region. Contributes in biodiversity conservation.  Educates public about local floor fauna, awares public about significance of conservation. The information given during the tour about the Black oak, ---- thorough and an eye opener. To preserve and keep clean environment. To preserve the wild as it exist. Unique geography. To show how the Lake Michigan and great lakes are a value to the area. Unique landscape. One of the top bio diverse parks in the nation.  Has a rare black oak savanna, important to conserve ---- dunes area. The dunes are ---- and ---- ---- access to the ---- ----. Biodiversity. It maintains the natural beauty of the Dunes, rather than allowing them to be industrialized.  This is a unique entrance to a beach rather than traditional sand. Bring people from the city here to enjoy the beauty of nature. To be able to enjoy the beautiful lakeshore. Turning the wasted lake area to a community space that is beautiful to enjoy was wonderful. Acidic ---- in Indiana lakeshore ----. Preserving the bog!  From the original glacier so, so important. Maintain unique environments. Public access to the Lake Michigan beaches in Indiana, preserving wet lands in NW Indiana and maintaining natural wildlife in a industrial area. Sand Dunes. Nature preservation, public enjoyment. To preserve natural resources for future generations. The sand dunes at West Beach are unique, special and significant!  They should be preserved as a national treasure! Unknown."
302,New River Gorge NR,NERI,"Watershed info. Its regional and historic make-up and people!  Beautiful. New river. Brings attention to the area's contribution to our country. It's natural beauty. To set our nation in an originals state is something that had to be seen.  ---- made to stay active and healthy. Very nice park. Education and beauty is worth seeing! Unique opportunities to observe river canyons. Yes, it is pretty! This park helps provide healthy options to people as well as inform them on the importance of preservation. Coal miners. Preservation of America's beauty. Preservation of land, water, resources. Exceptional scenery.  Explanation of the significance of the mining industry and railroads to the development of West Virginia. The New River Bridge shows the amazing engineering capability within our nation. Importance of water conservation/water quality and maintaining natural resources for beauty/enjoyment and future generations. History of area and George. The history of area and the State of WV. Not sure. Great History. It provides information on the history.  Very interesting. Historical value; time capsule. Railroad Heritage and History. To learn about Coal Mining history and the impact of the railroads. Transportation, communications and recreation. You can not grow and flourish if you don't remember your roots. Beautiful land that was almost lost to industrialization. Scenic views and recreation (hiking). Learning about the oldest ---- USA. Young man very nice give him a raise. To provide a history and need of the bridge. Gorge, natural environments, education on the outdoors. History. Views of river and mountains. Glory of U.S.A. Preserves a unique area. Fantastic recreation amenity! GREAT! The natural beauty and scenic views. Protect geology, history of area. ----. Every park is a national treasure.  I appreciate the chance to view these special places. The New River is a national treasure.  It should be preserved. Geologic and other natural features. Just the history and beauty of it. Protection. Beautiful protected land. Beautiful views. Education regarding New River and indigenous flora and fauna. Beauty preservation. This park is amazing and so thankful we have it. Uniqueness of the New River and its gorge. To show off man's great engineering feat with nature as a back drop. It is a recovery of an exploited area. This park preserves the New River in its wild nature for the future generations. Natural beauty, significant ----, historical overview. Sharing the history of the ---- people lived in the ---- natural beauty ----. Preserves natural resources-presents history of the coal industry so important to US history. Gorge, forest with trails, beautiful landscape preserved for future generations. Showcase the beauty of WV, the ---- that ----- employed people. Biggest Arch bridge, new ----. The beautiful view and architectural significance of the bridge. Historical, cultural, ecological and economic as well as artistic presentation of New River watershed, also the Sandstone School once on site. Historical aspect of the mining industry. The beauty, peace, simple! To provide insight about the important connection between railroads and ---- industry in early 1900's. The historical summary meant a lot to my husband who was from a mining community that has changed so much. It was a coal town.  They should how functions were accomplished in a difficult time.  They were able to move a lot of coal from area. Steam engines/transportation/railroad town and life. Local history. The gorge, of course! And the history of the area and geographical significance. The new river Gorge is a national treasure. The historical and cultural background was very interesting. Beauty, river, falls, railroad history. Historical relevance to National building, i.e. trains and coal; beautiful area and bygone era. Historical significance, culture and nature preservation. Protecting the laws and watershed that affects multiple states. Beauty, out door activities, heritage. Natural beauty and resource. To show how my family was raised here and show out-of-staters that there is more to God's creation than their back yard. Scenic beauty and recreation. River and environment. Preserving nature for future generation. Protecting the watershed and it's river. Save the water.  Take care of the beauty of our nation. Scenic beauty. So people can ---- nature, natural resources and how we effect it. 0 Staff very helpful."
303,Santa Monica Mountains NRA,SAMO,"Lake ---- era/beautiful area just a short drive from a concrete jungle. Love Peter Strauss Ranch and have attended monthly Summer concerts for years.  I am not sure about new arrangement requesting a donation for Concerts.  Also time changed:  was ----; now too long. Rivers and waterfalls. CA plant life/historical houses value of learning about how fire was important for new growth. History. Good walk. Recreation/physical activity. Important recreational exp. in a large, crowded urban region. Historic home, ruins, and amazing views of Santa Monica Bay/Malibu. Provides ---- ---- experience for urban-historical ---- site.  African-American ----. To give ---- joy. Preserving our National character. Historical preservation. Beautiful Park-so thankful it's as untouched as possible. That it's so close to the beach. Hiking. Beautiful view. Roberts house area. Beautiful example of a preserved area in the Santa Monica Mtns for everyone to enjoy. Very peaceful and 1st time here will be back. It is very significant. Rather ---- resilience in the face of constant ----. Preserving coastal environment, from and fauna. What? Love the availability and scenic areas to unwind. Preservation of open space. Nature animals, views, exercise, escape from city. Need ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. Cultural heritage. Yes! Historical significance of the fine and the architecture behind it. Beautiful! Great-nice to get out to nature. The canyon views. The history/culture. Beauty on place.  Historic house. Historic significance, ---- to local area. Preserves a section of the CA coast which saw the rise and fall of native tribes and the advance of the Spanish and American influence.  It's also beautiful. I see it as more significant to the earth. Showing the natural beauty of the region and highlighting the stark contrast between the city and the mountains. A safe place to visit with like-minded people to enjoy and participate in something they like, American music. I don't know!  Who is Strauss? Health and well-being for people to enjoy nature. Jewel of Santa Monica Mountains. History of ---- interacting w/open space. Easy access, near beach; well appointed. Open space.  Not developed. Maintenance and education. Wonderful group camping ----.  Allows for a reconnecting and disconecting. Tallest mountain range in the Santa Monica's. Recreation for Ventura/LA ----.  Brings awareness to parks importance. Play in nature that is shaded. Keeping open spaces accessible. To preserve nature. Preservation of nature. To view our natural surroundings so close to the city. Public outdoor experience. Great. Preservation of green space. Great opportunity to do some thing with your family that doesn't include electronics. Keeping open land under developed and a natural place where the public can come and learn about our natural resources. The early days of Hollywood Western filming and before that house ranching. The beauty is very important. Rare California undeveloped area. Keeping kids in nature. Iconic location along the CA coast. Movie history but chaparral. Thank you for hosting the biobliz science festival. To show wild life and protect animals and plants. Opportunity to escape to nature and enjoy the quiet beautiful surroundings. Its animal. It is an opportunity to be with your self and your thoughts in a world full of artificial and social exposure.  A visit here makes you more understanding of yourself and our world.  Take a hike! Our local native plants and animals to be shared by all. Beautiful grounds western more sets quiet hiking trails, beautiful setting.  Open ended adventures for kids. The hiking grounds. This Park is a great representation of the Santa Monica Mountains. The beauty and the view. To provide freedom, peace and tranquility. Beautiful, amazing views, peaceful, a lot of animal sightings. I live Malibu and Congo Valley.  Born and bred! Protected space. It's full of Malibu history and overlooks our city. Film history. Great place to bring the family for a hike. I believe this is sacred land and the National aspect is expressed through the full access of the Park. Flora, Fauna-ruins. Important natural and historical scenery!  Love bringing our kids here to hike! For us to get out and enjoy nature. Scenery. To enhance and enrich the knowledge gained by the public in regards to plants and animals. Retaining the beauty of nature.  Development must not be allowed every where.  Wild life needs to thrive in it's habitat. The parks are great opportunities to get out in nature.  We have gone through many and feel privileged. The history and nature...it's home and it's simply beautiful and breath taking.  I love the cliff swallows. Yes! To help preserve the history of movies. Entrepreneur's estate. Its wild life and historical value. Preserve what CA used to be before people and the urban sprawl. Thee is not large metropolitan area in the country with the geographic and cultural diversity as found in the SMM NRA. History of the area. Protect land. History culture civic geography economics. Conservation. For our urban setting bridges the gap between early Indian, Erdo settlers and ranching history.  Great outdoor recreational area. America's heritage. Native American culture (Chermosh). Nation's animals, and the original Americans. Any Park caring for, preserving, and displaying the beauty of this Nation's natural gifts is extremely needed. To make available to the general public the natural beauty of the area and to provide educational opportunities about Native culture. All National Parks are incredible.  We always have a National Park pass in our possession. Much needed Park space in heavily populated area. Celebrates Indians-Native Americans. It is truly wonderful to have this wilderness so close to population centers. History at its best. A look back at where the ---- Indians lived and thrived. Culture. Great to get out and walk and experience nature, Parks are ---- important in this age of Metro expansion. Historical for local community. It preserves history and educates visitors of local hiking trails. Natural Treasure. Wow!  Where do I start?  Look at its beauty!  And it would be a travesty for houses here instead. Open space access in usage. Historic trails like the Deanza trail and new nat'l rec. trail designation for the back bone trail-also native American sites all over. It gives a great insight not only to locals but to tourists too. Chumash homeland, open space, 67 mile connected trail. The habitat-it provides for local wildlife significant to this area. Some of the last open space in So. Cal. Helps educate us about the native Indian Tribe of the area and is a great family outdoor area. Public lands and ---- enriching. An outstanding sanctuary, LEED building, native indigenous plants garden, bird habitat.  The three agencies have done a fine job maintaining and preserving this treasure. Native wildlife. Native plants and wildlife also native American heritage and culture. Location and historical reference."
304,Lincoln Home NHS,LIHO,"All Parks need, to be maintained and AVAILABLE. Great. The preservation of our Nation's history. It is important to remember ---- past. Extremely significant. Home of 16th President. Where Lincoln lived. Enjoyed very much.  Thanks. Historical preservation and ---- knowledge on. Home of Lincoln and his family. It reminds me of a turbulent time in our nations history, much like today.  It inspires me to believe that everything can get better. History. Preserving the home of Lincoln extremely important. Heritage of a great statesmen! It came alive! Learning about Abe Lincoln. To understand the nation's greatest president before he became president. Resident Lincoln's life-majorly important! How Mr. Lincoln lived the American dream. Honoring Mr. Lincoln. Awesome. History of importance American figure. Huge. Lincoln's importance to the U.S. journey is inexcusable. The more we can learn about the men the better! The history of our country. Very high significance! Thank you! Wonderful. A simple life we should try to emulate. Preservation and education. Very educational. To honor Lincoln's abolishment of slavery. Huge. Showing our ---- the life of one president. History of one of our most influential presidents. Historical homage to a great leader. An important in our nations history! The national significance of this park is more relevant than ever and provides people an opportunity to learn and discover the context of a true American leader. Tour guide was excellent-enjoyed touring Lincoln's first home and neighborhood! 0 A great resource to learn about Abraham Lincoln and the history of that time period. Abe's home. Historic home. To be able to see into Lincoln's early life.  Also what life was like in 1800's.  Living history. A Lincoln history. It helps to remember the president who preserved our Union. Home of greatest president. Very significant. To learn about Lincoln and how he lived. Historical value of significant president. Showing what America was like when Lincoln was elected president.  Teaching about Lincoln. Very important to help us recall our past, got chills when Ranger Jan said in the last election, no candidates would have been viable in Lincoln's day. It is important to see this restored neighborhood-to see and imagine how ""regular"" life was. To learn about our sixteenth president and how his family lived. Lincoln history. Very important. To honor one of our greatest presidents and national hero. Our finest president. Shows that from humble beginnings and reliance on God anyone can reach his dreams. Lincoln's history. A. Lincoln. Preservation of Lincoln's past. Commemoration of the 16th president's home. Learning about one of the best presidents ever and his contribution to the United States. Heritage of where we come to who we are now. Super significant. History-lives of ---- and family.  Neighborhood. The keeping of American history. Very significant. It ---- the history of Abraham Lincoln before he was president. Very significant-home of President Lincoln! Awesome.  Please continue to keep up the good work! History of Lincoln.  Would have liked to have heard a little more about his and his family's life. Very significant. High significance...Lincoln's home! Open to every one. We think of Lincoln from IL, nice to see what he lived in, where he was from. Demonstrates how a President started life. Absolutely!  A great opportunity to experience life in President Lincoln's time and to appreciate the kind of wise thoughtful human he was. Lincoln history. High good job illustrating impact of Lincoln. I think it is great.  Well maintained, interesting! History preservation.  Honoring a true American hero. Lincoln's home! Everything was amazing. History. The center humanizes one of the most important people in our nations history. Very important! History. It provides insight into Pres. Lincoln's life, values of thinking. To remind us of the history of the USA. History. Display and educate the general population. It speaks volumes about a president that helped unite a nation. This is absolutely a critical national park and important monument to commemorate Lincoln's important role. To educate others. Lincoln's home. Abraham Lincoln was one of the best presidents.  Important for all to understand his importance. Lincoln is a model of presidents. Preservation of nation's presidential history. Many visits to line. Home as parent, teacher, grandparent. ---- visits (last one, 2013) were excellent. The tour 3 days ago (July 8) was rushed, leaving little time for questions, Lincoln Home is a. To preserve the history of our nation. The home of our greatest president. Our history is very important to everyone and visuals are very helpful. It's Lincoln, always important to the nation. History. Keeping Lincoln known to everyone. Very important that children learn our history. One of our beloved Presidents! Preserve history, give people a sense of where ""we"" came from, what kind of man Pres. #16 was. History of Lincoln. Historical importance. Never forget the message of Lincoln and American history. An important part of our history and heritage. History for all. Home of one of the best Presidents. Lincoln home.  Wonderful tour and visitor center, people. Lincoln was a President who changed the course of America. Very important part of our American history. Learning how historical figures lived. It is ---- see place, full of history and ----. Great historical and for future history. History of Lincoln. The fact that he was 16th President of U.S. Lincoln's life in Springfield. Very important. Very important in Lincoln's principles are very apparent through the tours. Keep up the great job at all of them. Bring history to the modern day. Holding on to what we cherish and respect will help all generations. It is so important to preserve our history and to share it with the next generation. Preservation of President Lincoln's values. The history and presenter of our nations past. The life of Lincoln and his work and beliefs on display. The start of a new nation. Very important-awesome. History!  We need it back then now and from now on. It's important to remember our past and show our children our history. Learning about Lincoln. Lincoln's legacy-freedom for all. Lincoln. Michael was great!  My kids paid attention throughout the tour all thanks to him! Our history, don't take it away or change it! So we don't forget.  To retain and appreciate how we got to where we are now.  (It didn't just happen!) To learn about President Lincoln and things during that time period. Very necessary ---- the surrounding homes-this should be enhanced in literature better. History. Extremely significant. Loved it! Don't change the history. Lincoln history shaped our nation. Lincoln was one of our greatest presidents... great to see where his views were shady. Learning about Americas history. Appreciating Lincoln's background i.e. pre-presidential activity and life style. Excellent-history. Lincoln's home. Intimate view of Lincoln's life. To uphold the historical value. History of Abe Lincoln. It is always nice to see old houses and historical buildings.  Lincoln was our greatest president and it is important to learn about him. This park represents Lincoln's beginnings. Utmost due to the significance of the most influential president of the U.S. Lincoln!! The birth of freedom for all. Excellent view into our most important president's personal life. Historical relationship to President Lincoln. Lincoln's background. We get to step back in time, if for a moment, to see how one of our presidents lived. Historical inspiration. Lincoln's history. Keep our past and learn from it. Humility/hard work.  Family values. The Lincoln's house. So people can see Lincoln's everyday items and back ground or way he lived. It is wonderful to see some of the same things Lincoln would have seen. Gives inside to his life. Home of the 16th president. Of course, Lincoln's name is so significant seeing the integral role he played in our history. Very significant. Excellent have closed captioned in theater. Keep Park rangers all so friendly and helpful.  Surrounding area excellent. The party of LINCOLN."
305,Moores Creek NB,MOCR,"It was a major revolutionary war turning point. Rev. war both sides, Naval stores. Teaching future generations where we came from and how it happened. It's important for people to be aware and knowledgeable of their national area's history. Keeping this past available for all generations is a plus for today's kids. It represents the battle fought there and the people who died. Shows independent spirit and courage of North Carolina residents. Important to understand our history. Saving these sites. It is significant because there was a battle of the revolutionary war. 1st battle of the revolution. Education for a turning point of our nations history. Freedom. The first revolutionary victory. To preserve an important piece of history. I think this Park has a great historical importance. The turning point of the Revolution in N.C. Very good film, easy trail, very informative. Great history experience. Important battle in keeping British out of State for years/kept hopes of independence alive. Revolutionary battlefield History. Teaching history.  Resting.  Beauty. To bring to life the history of the American Revolutionary War in the Carolinas. Very significant in the environmental ---- of U.S. I think everyone would love to have an opportunity to experience it. There is a lack of revolutionary knowledge today and you ---- amazing. The beginning of the revolutionary war. It established us to have independence. That it shifted thinking from rebellion to revolution, and that it started the inevitable movement toward independence. History. First battle fought in the American Revolution in NC and curtailed the British from invading the South. History of story of start of American Revolution. N. C. history. First patriot victory during Revolution... Get some! This park is the site of the turning point of the colonies fight for independence. NC history. Great example of the historical path of America's independence. NC first to ask for independence. Point in history to remember. 1st patriot victory and NC choosing to ---- independence ----. 1st significant battle resulting in victory for the patriots. A catalyst for choosing independence over colonial rank.  ---- key to becoming our own nation. Battle that led to NC's call for independence. Education. Great NC history. It's the start to independence. Moore's Creek ----. Our country fought for our freedom and independence. The location of the park gives the park significance and the history behind the park is very important which gives the park its own uniqueness. Vital to the community and our history. To remember and ---- our fight for freedom."
306,Walnut Canyon NM,WACA,"Understanding of the past. Ancient people studies. Natural, cultural, and archeological significance. History and knowledge of past civilizations. Preserve culture, recreation. Home to the Hopi. To learn Native history. Cultural, geographical, geology. A glimpse into early life before we became a country. Very good. An important view of the nation's history. Learning how ancestors lived. Archeological work being done. Early pueblo life, adjustment of people to their environment. History of the indigenous people; how they lived. Parks are extremely important for both enjoyment and preservation. The originality of the Indian ruins. The way the people survive, and some values were carried on to other cultures.  The people worked really hard from nothing. To mark how far civilization has come. Yes, very unique part of history. History. Dwellings of the people native to the area and understanding/learning the life style. History. Understanding Native peoples. The study and preservation of ancient Native Americans. 0 Preserve Native people's heritage. History of the area. Native American Legacy.  Memory of how sensitivity to Legacy has evolved. Preserve, teach about our history and to preserve nature/habitat. To preserve the culture of this Canyon and educate the public. Good look into previous cultures and how they survived. This shows me what life was like so long ago...good comparison. Embodiment of Native culture specifically ----. To show that people didn't always live in ---- to reach areas and had to adapt to their surroundings. Link to ancient civilizations. Tribute to American History and Geological History. Educational, learning how people used to live. Our history. Preserve culture and history of Native Peoples. Historical and anthological significance. Conserve cultural heritage! Great historical perspective of original Native inhabitants. Preserving the history of the Native people. The ruins.  The natural environment. History of ancient people. It's the beginning. One of the best sights in Arizona.  Informative:  amazing Island trail.  Excellent film. Preserving our Native Culture history. Shows habitat that worked well for peoples long ago.  Their ingenuity made for a rich, varied life. Yes. Historic. Seeing the Cave Dwellings. Dwellings.  History. Absolutely! An important education and preservation of Nature's beauty and the skills of an ancient and talented civilization/people. An incredible piece of natural and human history that is important to understand and preserve. Cliff Dwelling History. Connection to ancient way of life in our Country. Education. Exposure of the public to ancient civilizations. Historical/Archeology. It has sights most places never have available. It preserves some of the history of the tribes in the area.  I wonder though if they would appreciate people going in the Pueblos though.... Preserve Native American history for future generations. Preserving Dwellings and history/ The Native American population are a major part of this Country, their legacy should be preserved. Very important part of our history. AMAZING! Awareness of early settlers in the U.S. and how they showed respect for this land and for all who live here. Beautiful! History. I love geology.  It opens the eyes of the public! Important to make people understand the way of life back in the day for these people. Preserve natural beauty for every one to enjoy and learn about other cultures in the past. Seeing and appreciating the past. To show how a different culture of people lived.  Very cool. To teach and learn. Very significant. It is a beautiful example of the Native American Cliff Dwellings. All. To research and learn the culture of my people. Maintaining and making available to public the cliff dwellings and Nat Amer culture. Ancient dwelling. Indian culture. It shows where we came from. Remembering our native American history and protecting our natural habitats. Preservation/heritage. Preservation of cultural history, learn from the past. Preservation of the past for future generations.  It is very important to preserve and protect. Heritage of original AZ habitant. Protects our cultural heritage. Beautiful. Historical. Keeping history alive!  Great job by President Wilson in 1915! Anything that preserves the history of our nation is significant and it's worth the effort. Heritage respecting 1st nation peoples. To remind us what happened to the Native Americans (near extinction). High. Native American history, natural history. History and cultural remembrance to an integral part of our past. Very important part of American History. Preserve ---- Native American culture is always worth while. Revisiting the past. Big peal, very nice. Culturally significant inhabitants/dwellings. Understanding the lives and history of the cultures and people who make up what we are today. Preserves our true American history. It is beautiful and a cool history experience. The view. This is very important to our state and national history. Thank you for preserving it! Awesome! The significance of this park is substantial.  I think all residents of the American Southwest should visit this great park and better understand the history of our state and region. Respecting indigenous peoples. That you learn about the people and their lives hundreds of years ago. It shows how perspective has changed and how history was lost. Ancient Hopi dwelling. History of the peoples. Geographical history. Ancient peoples, natural area, wilderness, plant and animal ----, biodiversity. Preservation of history. Preserving cliff dwellings.  Really cool. Very significant. Historical. The geology and the pueblos. Cliff dwelling. Geologically important, great cliff dwellings, very educational and interesting.  Ranger Kyle answered SO many questions.  Very happy we stopped. Native American history, geology. Preserving our Indian history. Remember the Hopi community and plant life in the Walnut Canyon. Roots of humans. Saving and maintaining Native American history. To preserve the land/history to educate future visitors and enjoy the beauty. Wonderful history on local nature life. Cultural, ethnographs, archeological and ecological preservation and education. A heritage site which teaches us how predecessors lived earlier in this region with limited water. Extremely-preserving Native American history is essential, especially due to the dwindling ----. History-see God's creation. History. How early settlers used the natural environment to construct housing and protect themselves. It is a record of a culture and a way of life preserved for our appreciation and understanding. Maintain history. The culture of AZ and to show the beautiful history. The past, and the history of the Indians that once lived here. Very significant. Protecting the natural history of area. Ability to see early Native American lifestyles. Preserving history is important. Amazing. Very good learning experience, cultural, geological and archeological.  It is important to learn and embrace ancient cultures and peoples. Learning and natural experience. Yes. Cultural and environmental history.  Should be mandatory for students to see and understand. Cultural heritage. Native American history. Preserving nature and history. Showcasing historical usage of area.  Also showing the wrongs of previous generations taking artifacts. Brought family ---- group of 16, range age 6-68. This park site has very high value to public in preserving the cultural heritage, natural beauty and much more. Diversity history, history, history. The caves are nice to see and learn about.  Very hands on. Vital to preserve this cultural heritage.  Also, to preserve this beautiful natural area. History of the people who lived here. Providing information on the early American people. I love the fact that the national park service honors the Native American's and preserves their history. Yes it is the NATION. Fantastic lesson for people to understand Indian culture, and it's importance to our nation's history. Historical presentation. Nature history. History of area is incredible. Big, beautiful canyon and cliff ruins. American (Native) culture/history visual significant-beautiful canyon! Great to capture the life of the earliest inhabitants. Historical content. A glimpse into ancient culture and real time class room in geology. It was very good and I love it. Preservation of historical and cultural. Is good source of study for how others lived years ago. Ancient people. Great significance. The ethical, aesthetic and historical significance of our ancestors is so accessible here and striking in our ability to connect so closely. Great lesson for Indian culture and history.  Long lasting learning opportunities for years to come. Great lesson for Indian history and culture.  Need to preserve this for future generations. Wonderful thank goodness it's been preserved. Provides valuable insight into our human history. This land has existed for a long time-life did not start with the European invasion. History of the Pueblo and ---- people who live here; plant/animal diversity. To learn about this area. It gives some insight as to how the Native Americans lived. Learning about cave dwellers. To teach about a culture that existed long before modern buildings using just nature. It has lots of ruins. Indian life. It is more important than recent American history. Amazing natural vistas. History. Invaluable from a cultural and historical view point. Indian culture and history of AZ. Maintain the natural beauty for all generations. N. Amer. culture/history, nature preserve. A beautiful historic monument we need to save! Great. Indian history is important! Preservation of our environment. Shows exceptionally the life of Native Americans and their ---- and adapt ----.  Amazing! Maintains natural environment and serves to give citizens appreciation both of nature and history. Ancient cultures beauty of park. Historic mark. Native American history. It's a great thing to our country to show our children. Preservation of history. Preserving the beauty of the cave dwellings. Examples of now people worked for their life, the balance of living with nature and how ---- car. Learn about different AZ cultures. Native American ruins; natural geography, geology. So God's creation will be here for our youth. Preservation. Awesome memorial to past native Americans!  Thanks! Heritage and respect. Hist. of Indians etc. History. Knowledge of the native people and how they lived.  Natural beauty. Preservation of history and access to nature. People lived here a long time ago and it looks cool. Can't be put into words!  I'm thankful this has been preserved. History and culture of the people who were here first.  Thanks. Beautiful and less populated way to see gorgeous scenery and learn about the Hopi. Share old world cultures of ----. To set how our original inhabitants lived. History preservation. Very important to native history.  Please preserve. How much has been preserved from the original. The history. Archeological interests, Canyon Ecology. Exceptionally significant. History-significance in early American settlements. We must preserve those who came before love to see this and wonder. Good for recreation and learn about history. Historical. History. Valuable history. Cultural History and Natural History and convergence of the two. Everything. Yes-very important to maintain the historical value. Preservation. Native heritage, envious of this life style. It was important to show my son the native way of life throughout history. The ruins. The cliff dwellings to protect the people. Tremendous facity and most interesting. Study the ways of our ancestors. The cliff dwellings and geologic features. Implable-talk of use of natural resources, immigration, sense of community, entrepreneurial spirit-and spirituality. Living history. Excellent preserving of native American heritage. Remember 9 times past and ---- for those who ---- and preserved this land so I can be free today. History, beauty. Very educational, great to learn and teach my children about our nation's history."
307,Vicksburg NMP,VICK,"---- ----. Because so many fought for what they believe in. Preserving the story of the Siege of ----. Very important part of our history. Very significant. The Civil War, how fought, lives lost. Civil War. Civil War history must see. National History. Its ---- ----- ---- ---- trip. Yes. History. Brings to mind: ""If we don't study and learn from the mistakes of the past, we are bound to repeat them. Greatly important for people to know the history of our nation. History-sacrifice. It emphasized the way the Union was reestablished and slavery war ended. It is part of our country's history. It taught me at ---- ---- about the Civil War and ---- of the Mississippi River ----. Most revered was the Civil War. Restoring history is essential to our young ones. To understand the way settle of the western ---- the war between the sides. It is a poignant reminder of the high price of our union, and the tragic waste of life that is war. Major strategic plan to cut south off and end war. Preserve history. To remembering the great sacrifice people gave to ---- ---- ----. Very ---- ---- ----. History ----. History, history, history!  Love to learn. We need more parks like this.  Let's remember the past, our history is important. To educate the general populace of the conditions and significance of the Cairo.  It is a wonderful exhibit! Heritage. Vicksburg is a key site in Civil War history. The memorials are an important reminder of the sacrifices made by both sides. To help learn and remember history. The amazing journey of seeing who, where, how and why Civil War was significant in Vicksburg is ""The key"". Historical outlook and education. The importance of the battle in the outcome of the Civil War. It's part of the history of our nation. A major milestone in this country's history. Couple-our nation's history defines who we have become. American history. Preserving history for future generations. Civil War battleground-historical. Great.  Future generations NEED this. The Civil War. To honor sacrifices made of the fallen and what this country represents.  (Freedom.) Beautiful. Civil War history. Helped me explain the Civil War to my teenagers. It is part of our American history.  We owe our children the history of our nation.  We must protect our story. Our history is being forgotten! To teach people about past. To educate people about the Civil War. Historical memoir of our nation's history. US citizens need to know our history to appreciate our freedoms and uniqueness. The iron clad boat being restored. Critical to our National History. Important it's National History. Cario-Ship.  Battle of Vicksburg. Civil War-turning point in war. Outstanding preservation of history. Learn about the Civil War. Outstanding. To highlight the importance of taking Vicksburg by the ---- in order to ---- supplier to the South. Civil War history. Learn history. Wonderful for kids to learn. Civil War history was revealed at the OSS ---- amazing the work involved to restore. ""Lest we forget...""  The heroic fight of our countrymen and the losses they endured during this struggle. Great education. Preserving the history of Vicksburg.  The trenches are amazing and very well preserved. Important part of Civil War a most significant event in our city. Preserving the history of our nation. To remember history or be doomed to repeat it. With Gettysburg-ended the war! Awe-inspiring!  Beautiful maintenance! American heritage. History/development of our nation and warfare technology. To preserve the history of the Civil War and educate generations to come as to the importance of the battle and the impact and significance it had. Excellent. History of one civil war, remembering the cost in lives. Keeps history alive. Nations history. To depict the battles and lives lost of many men.  And the profound issue that our country was at war with our own. A reminder of a tragic war. Hallowed ground. Controlling the Mississippi, north and south preserving history, veterans. History is valuable and the best way to learn is by seeing and feeling. Military and war history. UK visitor. Priceless historical reminder and landmark.  Truly a heritage site. To remember. History, history, history! History-sacrifice. Very important to historical preservation. Civil war. History. The history of the bravery of all who fought to unify the country. History Buffs!  Very important! Preserve our historical areas from development! Unchanged history. It represents all the blood, sweat, and tears put into the war by each state. Considerable contribution to promoting the history of our country. Fantastic! Great ----. Historical education and appreciation. History of establishing our nation. History. Maintaining history and memory of history of Civil War. Preserve history and honor them that served and died.  To learn from history and not report mistakes. To keep our nation's history alive for future generations. To learn more about the civil war. Very important. The difference between the north and south about taxes.  Our generation needs to know.  Love this place! History is such a valuable resource!  Thank you! Look back and make this NEVER happen again. The importance of the Battlefield in comparison to the Civil War. Historical value and memorial. It is important to remember where we came from and how we got here. To preserve history for future generations. Learning history. Preserve a history that is slowly being lost to younger generations. To learn through the eyes of soldiers to which life that they endured. Inform of the importance. Yes. Protect the battleground used during the Civil War and provide an amazing history. Battle of Vicksburg turned the tide of the Civil War opening up the Miss. River for ---- boats.  Ran out of gas on Battlefield Tour and great assistance from USPS. Key battlefield in Civil War, leading to Union  victory.  Preview of Trench Warfare. Great history and fun for whole family. Shows the great conflict between North and South causing the Civil War. Full of history-Battle at Vicksburg.  Very reverent. So the younger generation can learn and see where it took for the U.S. to become and stay united. Pivotal event in the Civil War.  USS Cairo excellent. This park highlights one of the most dismissive periods in our nation's history.  It also highlights the sacrifices on both sides. Great history. The division of a nation and the value of the Mississippi River."
308,Salem Maritime NHS,SAMA,"It is a very pretty and peaceful sight. An important chapter in our maritime history, which is why congress has to ---- the funding for NPS and make necessary repairs and improvements. History of the establishment of our great Country. Very earliest history during colonial days and revolutionary days and trade with China. I wasn't expecting to go into exhibits but really enjoying them, rangers were very informative. History, culture, diversity. The first commerce in Salem, MA.  I love National Parks!  XOXO. Very high. The history of the spice/tea trade, Salem Harbor, Witch Trial History. History of where we came from. Preserving Nation's history. Represents a time in our history when trade was predominately through small ships. Educate visitors about Salem and it's history; to preserve history. Was a seaport-however nothing in open on a daily basis. How not to treat your people.  History the good, bad and ugly. Yes. About how goods and trading conducted in old Salem. Salem's mari time history ---- better exhibitions and more funding!  It sends a terrible message when our ship is left disassembled for several years! Water front/trade in 1800's. Maritime history! The ship. The history of the start and continuance or Salem. The most important to know ---- is history so no mistakes from the past are repeated. The history of trade in and out of New England. Learn about New England history and coastline. Salem's history. The maritime history of Salem is one of the most significant pieces of Salem's development. Importance of maritime history to larger history of nation. Historical preservation of US culture visitors center could be more clearly marked. Excellent Mari time history education.  The signs.  On ---- wharf are charter, detract from the experience. Import 1 customs Nathaniel Hawthorne. Historic significance (commercial). It plays a crucial part in 1800s U.S. economy. The past is always important. Thanks! History. Early East Coast Sea Trade History. Salem is deeply seated within the history of our ---- and must be preserved. It's the First National Park. Wharf and Custom House. Historic context, preservation of historic architecture, natural/geological conservation. Opportunity to learn about our history as Americans. Great town love walking. To see early sights/site of commerce school kids recently studied. It shows the trading and sailing history of a town that would otherwise only showcase its witches. Preservation of historical places.  Education of what actually happened. Historical. VERY IMPORTANT to preserve our Nation's history! Preserve history. Salem Maritime History. Excellent-covered a broad history. Historic Salem/Water Front-Maritime History. Maritime History. ----. Historical. Birthplace of the United States. Historical and cultural. Maritime history; early commercial significance. History of shipping trade. This park is significant because is shows the history of the wharf in Salem and how it impacted the community. It was one of the first trade ports in the U.S. besides from being beautiful.  The area is rich in culture. It provides history lessons on important piece of America. History of our country. This was a huge part of America's (U.S.) first economic boom-East India trade, etc.. U.S. history. Trading during Colonial times, information. Historical. Large port. Learning about culture and history. Parking on sites. Very significant. One of the first commercial ports in America. Gives us a glimpse of the past-the beginnings of our great nation. Historical significance. History, roots, significant persons. Nation's history a must-see. An important part of the transportation development of history in early America. First maritime commercial wharf-Salem, MA. Its rich history of the Colonial period and the maritime trade. Preservation of national heritage. Beginning of international trades. Salem's ---- history. Import of goods. Historical and preservation. Maritime History-so important! Learning. The Boat but at the moment in restoration.  Historical buildings around. Learning about this Country's history. History. First Park in Country of U.S. of A. Historical value. It is very important for educating our youth and foreign visitors on our National History. The Maritime History that's often left out. Establishment of the country; effects of Puritanism; American writers of influence. Being so close to the water. History, beauty region at. Part of early history and culture. The history of the Maritime and the Witch trials. Maritime history and Witch trials. Historical. Important part of maritime and American history. Nathaniel Hawthorne.  Historic wharf.  Witch trails. It's historical significance. History, pleasure, restaurants. Port, Nathaniel Hawthorne significance. Founding of great nation. No idea. Remembrance of the Revolution and it's maritime aspects. The port of Salem. Of utmost importance to understanding and experiencing the early history of our nation. Pre-revolution history. Maritime importance of Salem. 8 out of 10 beautiful spot, ranger extremely helpful!! High value. Great to have in the community. Historic preservation/education and general recreation. First nat'l park in the country? Lots of historical significance preserved. I love being able to walk around maybe more benches to sit ----. Preserve history. Historical background, knowledge and experience. Important part/harbor-lots of trade! Very important to learn about. They sold goods here when Salem was founded. Early merchant trade and finalizing of the Early US Government. Learn about 1st family of Salem as well as the trading of Salem. Salem maritime is the each history of USA ----. Exceptional experience. Maritime history. Preserve history. 0 Critical element of American history. First trading port! Historically very ----. Maritime history. Nautical history and landmark for trade routes. Salem opened up the far east trade. Teaches visitors about our maritime history. Maritime of ---- very ---- Historical value of the Maritime history of Salem, MA. Shipping history in colonial era. Historic ----. Highly significant. Early U.S. history, especially since it is not being taught in schools, anymore. The fact sales had a port for the whole area. Maritime past connects to the present. Maintenance of history. 0 Promote knowledge of Salem's maritime history and its natural resources. Maritime history. Very good historical ties. 1st Nat. Park in the U.S. preserve it. ---- period, Salem witch trials.  Very interesting! Significance to our ---- history. Fantastic education!!  Beauty.  Learning things I may not have otherwise have known.  Thank you. We NEED to know about our history. History to trade, economic development of northeast U.S.. History. Big significance.  Great way to see history. History. Maritime history. It is an intriguing way for people to learn about colonial and maritime history. Early country origins. In establishing trade and commerce in America with other countries. Keep history alive. It's link from 17th century to present. It is highly significant. Maritime history. Historic relevance. American Maritime History. Salem was one of the first big cities in America and this Wharf helped make it great. It is an example of a Colonial Port and is important context for the rest of Salem and New England's historical significance. Allows you to see the commercial beginnings of our nation and to understand terms associated with shipping commerce."
309,Tumacacori NHP,TUMA,"History, culture. History. A great introduction to early American history! Preserves history. Importance of religion/church in eagerly settlement and to indigenous peoples. History and culture. Understanding cultural history. To help people to understand the past. Impact of Jesuits and Franciscans on native people.  Lifestyle of local people. Very educational. Spanish and religious heritage; Native American connections. The history of the mission we need to protect. History of Spanish presence in southern Arizona. History of Spanish/European colonization and its effect on people native to the region. Honoring, remembering and sharing early settlements and their life struggles of every day life. History, particularly of Indians, so often neglected. The history of the Spanish people and the mission. Arizona, Spanish culture, Indian history. Preserve history, tell mission's story. Presentation and preservation of our treasured history of the area. Picture of past religious life. Good addition to the story of the founding of the southwest U. S.. The human spirit to worship always important to this country. Early Spanish influence, Spanish and Indian interaction. Historic beginning in the SW. Keep it a park-historically significant. Preserve and protect the ---- landscape, culture and blending of cultures. Preserving our history. Shows the history and culture of the area and the faith of the missionaries. History must be kept or remembered. History of the SW. I love history.  This park had a lot of history.  Museum was great! The national significance is extremely important in that this park provides a glimpse into the history of Spanish missionaries and their interaction with indigenous people that is unlike the history of the English, Scottish, Germanic settlers of the East Coast.  The park enhances the Catholic Spanish history of the U. S. and Mexico. It tells an important story of the growth of missions in the area and their contributions to the local culture and land use. The history of religion. It is important to document early settlements and culture in the U. S. borders. Contributes to the understanding of how Arizona developed. First European (Spanish) mission in Arizona. Information about the part that missions served in our nation's history. Preserve history-very important. The Spanish/European heritage of the southwestern U. S.. This is an important part of this area and this country's history. Preserve and teach history. History of early settlements in the U. S. and importance of the influence on our society-great learning opportunity. High-should be supported-historical significance is great. Old U. S. historical site. Native American culture, Catholic mission history. History of mission settlement in eastern Arizona. History, heritage, honoring the past.  Learning how things were done. History. Hugely historical and cultural.  Enjoyed our visit immensely. It informs of history and cultural background to southern Arizona. Preserve the history and culture of southern AZ. Preserving history of the missions. Respect for first inhabitants. Southwest history-struggles with religion, forced or not. Thank you!  Excellent time to see Hispanic heritage. The building itself.  The history. The life of the early Indians, leadership of the church. Very high. Very important!! Contributing to the preservation of history of the Southwest, and appreciating the early ""melting pot"" that is the U. S.. History is so important! It recognizes Juan Bautista De Aniza. It's significant as a vestige of Spanish Colonial architecture and the European impact (positive and negative) on the Southwest.  It's amazing. One of the first entry and settlements by Europeans in North America. Our life as it was in old Arizona. Outstanding education! Preservation of local history. Preservation of the history of settling this part of the country. Preserving national history. The legacy of Spanish architecture in the American Southwest as well as the history of the American Indian. Very wonderful that the U. S. gov't. preserves this special piece of history. Very important in the history of Arizona. Coverage of history of southern AZ and relation with Spain and Mexico. Important to educate public on history and preserve architecture. Maintaining the Spanish history and culture from this part of the country. Teaching history and culture. Would greatly improve if a wireless or some type of mic were used by tour guides.  So many persons are hearing impaired. Culturally significant to the region and national history. Native Americans worked hard to make their/our country a safe, spiritual place to live. History of the Spanish in this area and how they affected the Native Americans. This mission is representative of the very earliest Catholic settlers.  AWESOME. To show the early historical significance of native people and arrival of Spanish and Roman Catholic Jesuits. Tumacacori National Historical Park-preserved ruins, informative museum, easily accessed trails. Early missions played a vital part in the lives of natives and settlers. It is a visual and informative area which has a rich history of the area and the variety of people who have lived in this area. Very important to U. S., Indian and Mexican history. Pre-U. S. independence regional history.  First Nations history. This is an important part of the American historical culture. History and education about European settlement and attempts at conversions. A great example of the convergence of three cultures from the past and currently. Preservation of historical place. History of missions in SW and Father Kino. Early white settlement in SW Sonoran Desert.  Contact with indigenous people.  Excellent examples of early architecture and building materials. Enjoyed a fresh tortilla! Gives a great history of Native Americans and the building of missions in the SW. History. Important part of American history. It preserves the beginning of the history of the U. S.. Our guide pointed out how, who and which people settled in the area.  How the religious orders changed and why.  When the land became a part of the USA. Preserve and promote diversity of traditions and heritage of the people who are all Americans. The history of the missionaries and seeing how they lived. Historical significance, ancient ruins and discoveries.  Recreational opportunities. History. This is one of the most beautiful places I've been to in the world. Historical and cultural significance to Southwestern history. Tumacacori gives us a glimpse into one of the European cultures that influenced the U. S. as we know it, but also cultures that predate the U. S.. Learning about the Padres and the early settlement in that area. Aids in understanding the settlement of southern Arizona through the establishment of missions. Shows the influence of Spanish Catholic Church settling in Arizona. It preserves an incredible part of history here in the Southwest.  The missions are a vital part of how people existed and founded these areas. I think is important to remember where we come from, this is a very important part of it. It teaches the way two cultures merged to settle the area.  Also the effect it had on the Native Americans that were already there. Learning of history of settlements of SW US.  Although probably not enough history on the indigenous people. It preserves a period of North American history and it's indigenous people. Good intro to history of the area. Historical. The history and beauty of the area.  There is so much here!! Historical. I came upon this National Park by accident-never knew it was here.  Wonderful GRASS LANDS.  Coronado was enlightening."
310,Fossil Butte NM,FOBU,"Provides a look and evidence as to not only the formation of the creatures of the U.S. millions of years ago but how our planet was formed. Very interesting, wouldn't get this info many other places. A part of our history (and or that matter human beings history).  Fascinating! Preserve amazing fossils and educate Americans. Significant for learning about fossils and their timeliness. Learning about ancient life and viewing fossils. Gives impression of migration routes and the interconnectedness with for example National Elk refuge.  Amazing display of geologic time/preservation. History, fossils. Preservation of natural wonders. The fossil record is amazing.  I am glad it has been protected and saved for all of us. Excellent example of our geo and paleo historical resources. Good to preserve historic fossils. Historical preservation of fossils. The history of the past. Great interpretation of park geological event. Broadscope of geography and geological history that is in continental U.S.  Helps place our continent in scope of the world. I enjoy all park units for their learning opportunities.  This one is nice-good fossils, good presentation! Preserving and educating about a world class fossil site-an irreplaceable national treasure. Inspiring visitors to learn about ---- preserve fossils.  this place had ---- 8 year old to become a paleontologist. Preservation and education. Opportunity to see a variety of fossils. All the fossils. To preserve history. Outstanding peek into the past. Establishes a sense of ecological history and ---- for geology. To keep us mindful of how old some of the fossils are in our country. Extremely significant. Knowing what the history of North America is and what it once was ----. Fascinating-I did not know the extensive fossil findings in our land. To teach people that there is major history. Preserving fossil history-learning from the past. Keep youth interested in science. Historical significance. Must preserve this. Natural history. Preservation of resources for our children to come and preventing illegal collection. The amazing fossils! What was the area like in prehistoric times. We need places to preserve knowledge of the past. Fossil Butte is wonderful. 0 Education preservation. If we don't tell the stories, who will? Write IT down now! The time to do it is when you see it. Geology history education. Great fossils of all kinds!! Historical preservation of oldest fossils. Historical tracking of species and it's evolution is amazing. History of life. HUGE: Fossil records, earth history is critical to ---- what we do in the next 10 yrs. It preserves history, teaches kids and adults about specific areas of America. It's a great tool to discovering the past. Kids can learn about fossils, explore and see excavation. Park does an excellent job explaining the natural evolutionary history of the region. Loved the timeline on the walkway! Prehistoric preservation, wildlife protection. Preservation of early history. Thank you. Preserve history and learn about the earth's time-line. Preserving and discovering fossils. He even went down a hill to find my ---- water bottle. Marcia-excellent! Very helpful and great with kids. Preserving and educating on flora and fauna from history. Preserving history for our children. Preserving the area of the ancient lake and the fossils found there. Historical/nature. Protecting an incredible fossil assemblage providing a visual example of the geologic focus that shaped the West. The history of the area. The immense number and diversity of the fossils found in the area. Also the landscape is beautiful. What a wonderful place to learn about world history. To show how long life has actually been around. We learned about fossils. World significance in it's collection of plant and animal fossils, continuing to provide valuable scientific information. Fossils and evolution. Great historical information. I enjoyed hiking here, then learning about fossils at the visitors center. Also, the picnic area is excellent. Learning about fossil lake. We had no idea until educated by Nickolas. Life itself. Paleontology and the prehistoric study of species. Preserving, protecting, and educating the public about paleontological resources. Scientific history. This is an incredible site with great value. To preserve the history of others to see. The preservation of the fossils in this area are critical. Keep it a National Park! Learning about the national history of the country and the walk through fossils is a great way to create nationalist to ----. To give a view of how fossils are properly uncovered and to share how we learn about our past through geology and archeology. Enormous fossil collections/knowledge and research.  Protecting fossils from commercial companies. The National significance was not clear to ----.  The historical/evolution significance obviously is great. Fossils that are not common, have not seen anything like it anywhere else. Preserving our history and learning from it. The fossils show what lived in this area thousands of years ago.  They also show the evolution of species.  Rangers explained how fossils are formed. Very educational and informative. This park and visitor center educate us about the incredible treasure trove of fossils from the Eocene found in this area. Natural history and use of area to describe historic conditions (i.e. research potential). A great place to learn more about the geological history of this part of our nation. The story of the fossils and what they tell us about the past.  The ---- of the different periods was informative as well. Preserves an important and unique part of our nation's pre-history. Earth history. History of the natural land. It is informative. Preserving natural heritage of the West, educating public, preserving fossils and desert ecosystem. The natural heritage-past and present-is unique. Wealth of fossil deposits and information that can be learned. The study and preservation of its many unique fossils. Geological treasure. The Park demonstrates that ancient plants and animals lived in the lands of our nation and that their fossilized remains are worth to be preserved for the education of all generations. Two families 2 + ---- boy, 2 + ---- nice film, good interactive booth with microscope work. Helps develop an interest in history and science in our children. Preserve history, mine fossils. History, geology, preservation, beauty. History, science preservation of fossils. Awesome fossil exhibit and resource that points to evidence of a global flood.  Thanks. ----, good source of info. An important area, highly needs to be protected from rock hounds and vandals. Very fine.  Needs better advertisement. Lots of fossils, fossil bed you can get close to and see fossils in place. Very nationally significant both for fossils/geology and a representative high ---- scrub-steppe nature ecosystem. Fossils. Teach about history. Awesome start for an education in our pre-historic past for anyone! Pre-history, knowledge of what was here before. The park was clearly established to educate the wider public about earth history, ---- geologist ---- is a ---- and noble cause. All the fossils are really, really special. Scientific and historical record. Education and exposure of the past. Fossil record, national history. ---- and helps preserve the ---- ----. It's interesting to learn about what was here in our nation millions of years ago. This has been our favorite park!  We've been to nearly ten on this trip.  Well run, great exhibits! Keep record of fossils. Historical-relevant to the preservation of geology. Excellent preservation of our natural heritage.  Also, close to our national historic trails ---- by NPS. It preserves geological history and contains great information about prehistoric life. Unknown to me. Excellent-our third visit, and we continue to learn more-culture, landscape, geology, history! I believe protecting all natural resources is important. Preserving archeological history and educating public. Widespread importance. Global geologic value-incomparable specimens. Very high, teaches about natural history. This is a treasure to be shared by all. Really awesome display of fossils.  Excellent hiking for youngsters.  The fossil dig site was great.  Very knowledgeable rangers. Natural heritage. To preserve and protect as well as being available to public. So very much a part of the human race and how life evolved! Preservation of a unique geologic feature for everyone to see. To educate about fossils and bring that information to future generations. The park preserves one of our nations great scientific and natural resources and teaches visitors what can be learned from reading the clues from the past. Past time, evolution, ----, fossils. Fossils! Enables younger ones to view exhibits up close. Employee cleaning fossil and answering questions was outstanding and highlights. Preservation for future generations of scientific and scenic value. Preservation of great fossil specimen from fossil lake-opportunity to educate the public about the areas natural history. To preserve and study the fossil records and to educate the public about the past. The nation is comprised of individuals. Raising the level of knowledge in the individual benefits the nation. Quiet, important for national study of prehistoric studies. Educational.  Excellent approach to history of the earth.  Superb accessibility to a unique place.  Important place to preserve. Researching and preserving the fossil records of these million year old lakes. Yes, the historical importance to the nation is very significant.  It is a unique monument. The park serves to protect fragile resources, and educate the public on an important scientific resource. Protect and study fossil. Fossils, land before time. This national monument is extremely important to the nation in that it preserves an extremely rare trove of fossils which can tell us so much of the history of the earth. Knowledge. Please sell individual stickers for the passports-at each center."
311,Thomas Stone NHS,THST,"Honoring the significance of signing the Declaration of Independence. It was awesome. As a signature of the Declaration of Independence it was well worth seeing what life was like in that day. Learn about the Declaration. One of our founding fathers. Important to learn of life and times of our founding fathers (and mothers). To gain knowledge of some of the history of Thomas Stone and Charles county. Didn't know who Stone was until I read about it on my way to Leonardtown ---- ---- today.  Lovely idea, glad we did. Personal, in-depth tours. To learn more about a little known signer of the Declaration. Declaration of Independence, history of Maryland. Gives attention to the life of a signer of the Declaration; educates people on what it meant when Thomas Stone pledged his life and fortune for a free America. To learn more about a man who signed Declaration of Independence and history of the area. Not sure. Historic landmark and home of a signer of the Declaration of Independence.  Preserved view shed. Home to a signer of the declaration of independence and a signer from Maryland. The national significance of this park is to honor Thomas Stone for signing the Declaration of Independence to safe guard American rights. Commemorate one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence and offer the opportunity to experience pre revolutionary living. Thomas Stone was a signer of the Declaration of Independence. As an architectural historian, I find the greatest significance in the preservation of the historic buildings and esp. out buildings. Celebrates Homestead of one of the original signers of Declaration of Independence. To teach us about Thomas Stone this part in history of ---- county and the U.S. Thomas Stone signed the Declaration of Independence and supported his ---- through her illness. Thomas Stone was a signer of the Declaration of Independence. To learn more about the signers of the declaration of Independence. Acknowledgement of a signer of The Declaration of Independence.  It's poignant to see his roots and walk his land that he put ---- for our independence. Signer of Declaration of Independence.  ---- connection of Stone's wife and Washington. Awareness of Maryland's contribution to the debate over the Declaration of Independence and Washington's army's escape over the Hudson River after the battle of Brooklyn. Personal home of a signer of Declaration of Independence. One of four surviving signers of Declaration of Independence homes. To provide an insight into the lives and ---- of one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. Memory of Thomas Stone. In an era of electronics it is good to see our grandchildren be able to see American history while it still exists. Definitely. Declaration of Independence signer. Learning about a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Thomas Stone was a signer of the Declaration of Independence. It is important to see, breath and experience history. The Thomas Stone, signer of Declaration was explained (how and what his view of the Declaration). Thomas Stone was a signer of the Declaration of Independence!  Of course his home is of national significance. Great experience!  Thanks! That a person who lived here signed the Constitution of the USA.  Amazing, more people would love this. Very important. Thomas Stone and his participation in the signing of the Declaration of Independence. Part of the founding of our nation. We need to honor and preserve the legacy of the signers. Very significant. Historical. Great significance-one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence!  What could be great? Signer of the Declaration of Independence-keeping history alive! I learned so much from this.  It gives facts that are unbiased, so you see both sides of the story. It afforded us some insight into how Thomas Stone, a lawyer and signer of the Declaration of Independence, lived. Reminder of how an important person in history lived. Signer of Declaration. The house of one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. Signer of Declaration of Independence very important to the foundation of our country. Declaration of Independence signer-seeing how someone like that lived (very different from some of the others with bigger houses, ----). It is really good to know tour history, since I moved from California. Home of a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Preserving the history and home of one of our founding patriots/fathers and signer of the Declaration of Independence. History of the signer of Declaration of Independence-Thomas Stone. Preservation of history-signers from the immediate area. Preserving the home of a signer of the Declaration of Independence and the ---- of same. The signers of the Declaration of Independence were the instruments that set the precedence and foundation of our laws and our nation. To familiarize us on a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Very significant-especially the chance to see an original copy of the Declaration of Independence! Very significant; wonderful tour! Belonged to a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Early history of our country. Increased knowledge about Thomas Stone. Learning about a signer of the Declaration that I didn't know about.  Very interesting learning about him and his family. Member of the signers of Declaration of Independence. Preserving our heritage. Tells the story of our country, area, history. Thomas Stone's legacy as a signer of the Declaration of Independence should be preserved. Opportunity to learn about the events surrounding the Declaration of Independence and the founding of our country. It gives a great view of Colonial life.  We are on a quest to see all fifty-six grave sites of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. It is important to learn about our country's history.  It was very good to learn about Thomas Stone. Thomas Stones grave site. History. A great example of an early American estate, well preserved. It tells the story of not only a significant, but overlooked leader, but all people who lived there. It illustrates the average founding father-a prominent state politician who served in Congress-and those of a moderate position in 1776. (Four in my age group.)  It took more than a Patrick Henry/John Adams/T. Jefferson, etc., to create this nation.  This native son of MD was as needed as any of the known Revolutionary patriots.  We are free because of men like him. Thomas Stone was a signer of our Declaration of Independence, which makes him ---- to our nation's founding. Lives and thoughts of the signers are inspiration for doing your part to be a good citizen. To Stone Home is one of the surviving homes of a signer of the Declaration of Independence.  well preserved. To enhance citizen's knowledge of our history and by doing so, promote patriotism."
312,Independence NHP,INDE,"It's the birthplace of our United States-13 different and independent colonies coming together, figuring it out and coming together to form our nation-well done! This is where our country was truly founded.  The history here is palpable! Birth place of our country. Very important part of our history.  My ten year-old daughter was impressed. The foundation of the country is pretty nationally significant. I feel it show the birth place of Democracy and the men and women who made it happen. It's where decisions were made to fight for independence! Birth place of America ----, cradle of liberty.  Really ---- see Ben Franklin's grave ----. Beginning of a Nation, the best on Earth; what's more to say? Independence Hall-American heritage.  Great experience. Joanne Schiliz was excellent. History of the greatest country on God's green earth God bless America! It was central to the formation of the Nation and the Liberty Bell is a powerful symbol of that struggle. Important to the establishment of our Independence and Government. Where the Nation was born. Very significant.  Location where Declaration of Independence was signed and passed as well as Constitution. Independence ---- showcases the central events in the founding of our nation and establishing the constitution. To help future generation to understand our history and learn what we did right or wrong. It was where it all started and the dream not only started but also grew with the ---- ---- preservation of the founding principle of our nation. Significant to our nation's history. Learning about the founding of our nation is vital to building an active, informed citizen. This park makes our nation ----. It's a national treasure! To teach people about American Independence and the people involved in that process. I think it is important for the younger generations to understand the sacrifices that the founding fathers paid for our freedom. Very significant to the birth of the nation! It's the beginning of our nation. Colonial time culture is very important. For learning early American history and culture. Historical knowledge of our Forefathers...how we came to be the USA. Celebrating our creation as a Country. Where Declaration of Independence was signed. Independence Hall says it all. Understanding the thought process and work involved in starting in the nation. Priceless is the value!  Independence Hall and Liberty Bell are our national treasures! Teaches essential lessons about the origins of our country. The national significance of this park is to share historical experiences and information. Nation's first capital city, Revolutionary War, historical documents, etc. The nation started at this park.  That is pretty important! Opportunity for UG residents and foreign visitors a chance to learn about our nation's birth of democracy. History-where USA began! Birth place of our nation. The birth place of our nation. Independence Hall and the Libery Bell are invaluable to the American people.  It is good to be reminded of the origins of liberty. Birthplace of country and government. Birthplace of our nation.  Reminder of where we ""came from"" and the people who were a part of it. This is where our country grew up.  Huge importance to our citizens and the world. Learning of our country's history. For us to go back to our roots on how the U.S. began and to see symbols and places of our history. Where Independence began. The importance of the ---- of the Declaration of Independence! Important to be aware of our own history and how it relates to current events. Perhaps for the men who gathered here, but much more for the words they left us with. Birth of a nation. To remind us NOT to engage in violent wars. Philadelphia historic value is immeasurable-remembering what happened here is essential to our continued national existence."
313,De Soto NMem,DESO,"It's good to know the history of the beginnings of our area in Bradenton, Tampa and Sarasota. It was informative of the early history of those that came to explore this country and how it continues to have some ---- on our Nation. It journals the very beginnings of the early inhabitants of N. America. Spanish exploration, meeting Native Am. and impact.  Maps show the progression of information. Reminds us of the natives that were slaughtered by European invaders, that we are all immigrants here! Information about De Soto and his great quest for gold and the braveness of earliest explorers. History of our nation. Showing the extent of Spanish exploration and the beginning of English, then American colonization of the region. We love it-that's significant-programs are good. History. Spanish settlers and the Indians. Good history. Historic. History. The many cultures that interacted (and clashed) in this area had far reaching effects-not only in the growth of this Country, but others too- 39 yrs. old we never learned ----. Spanish History-Native history.  Beginning of our Nation Spanish influence-good and bad. To educate. The program was ---- to show the weapons used over the years and the ex soldiers told their experiences.  Very interesting but long winded. This is very important to me or anyone to know about our ancestors and what was done and how it was done to all included. Important for understanding the founding of the state by the Spanish and their introductions with the native peoples. History of location. Yes-the impact of Desoto's landing in the native population was horrific and should be remembered.  More about the native people would be useful. Lessons that need to be learned from the past. The history of early immigration; the history of the native peoples affected by this immigration. The history of the early settlement of Florida. Shows part of eco system. ---- of time and effort went into this. DeSoto's mark on history. The history of the De Soto. The park depicts a time in North Am. history in the 1500's.  Spain's explorer Hernando DeSoto to interaction w/native Indians. That the Spanish ---- ---- before Columbus--and about the natives.  Very educational program. The history of DeSoto landing in Florida. Great history lesson of facts on the ---- known settlers of USA. It is significant as it shows the earliest explorers in the Americas but what the ---- built to experienced. ---- early discoveries made in the 16th century. Deputy ----, explorers and it habitant. Learn about DeSoto history. ---- Historical relevance. The basis of our nations history what happened and how ---- ----. It explains a little known Spanish leader and his explores and travels to find ----. A good perspective on a early explorer in America.  Maybe point out where they sailed outside. Historical/cultural, have been to many parks, NE to West Coast as well. Greatly needed and appreciated.  Our young people never ---- ---- ---- ---- possible. Explorers came here didn't find gold but long after realized the land was rich and beautiful. History. To learn about the benefits of the natural citizens. Learn history was ---- didn't know. To teach about early exploration and exploitation of the area. Exploration of the Spanish and the changes it brought to the ---- civilization. Learning about the ---- exploration on the ---- ---- fundamental to human ---- ----. Yes. Good history lesson, better off if you don't kill the Natives. History lessons of the colonization of this area. 0 Historical and cultural impact and contribution of the DeSoto expedition and general Spanish exploration of America's. Spanish exploration over view story of Natives here in FL overview. To teach us the impact of discovery. DeSoto exhibition and how it affected the exploration of Florida. That the nation honor ----. DeSoto expedition education. Education, remembers the past. Exploration and ----. Great. Historical back ground to explanation of North America. History of Florida. History. It means our local in heritage. Staff and volunteers are knowledgeable, congenial and helpful.  Displays are well done.  Appreciate living history aspect. The history of this Florida area. Very historic and knowledgeable to info I learned in a one room ---- in KY. Reminds of our Spanish roots. Pre US history lesson. Education. History. Discovery of this land and changes made need to be known. Excellent, a gem for Southwest Florida. FL beauty and understanding and learning about US history. Historical significance. History and nature preserve. History. History. I think the story of ---- is ---- learn about when traveling ----.  It gives an interesting back ---- when enjoy. It ---- the historical sides of the discovery of the US by Europeans. It is very informative and impressive.  I would recommend it to everyone. Preservation and education. The education of people in past history of US is crucial to survival of the country. To keep the history alive and protected.  Once it's gone it's gone.  Very important to protect it.  Thank you! Very, very interesting demo by Max on weapons. Where and how we started this great USA. History of Spanish Explorers. Very important. To learn the historical significance of the past-to apply lessons of past to present. Very good. History of our ----. We found out about ---- learn ---- some history of the area. Recognition of Spanish settling and ---- North America, particularly Florida. Would be excellent for children, school groups. ---- Our European history. 0 Historical significance. Tells history of the native people in a way young kids can understand. Historical. ---- History, education. To learn ---- his ---- Heritage-we need to keep it available four our youth. That ---- ----. Era is generally short-changed.  Comparative anthropology was excellent. Shows early exploration and development on this ---- ---- not known by most people. History of first encounter between Europeans and natives in SE United States. The ""discover"" of Florida! History of Western U.S. ---- ----. Explains heritage and settling info. To honor history. To celebrate our Nation's history. Explanation history.  We have been here six times! Tells the beginning story of America. Education about De Soto and other Spanish explorers; history of Florida. Beauty, ---- ----. De Soto's exploration. Historical value. History and scenery. Opportunity to experience ""living history"" lessons! Realization of the early history of our Country. Very interesting journey on history.  Very educational.  Enjoyed it very much. Spanish connection to USA history and American natives.  H2O Civil War. Understanding of European efficient in America, European good and spread of disease among indigenous populations. It emphasizes the melting pot characteristics of our great nation.  We are a people of ALL euthenics. Explaining ---- Spanish, ---- in Florida and in future USA. History, know it or end up repeating all the mistakes.  Someone had to be the first explorer, DeSoto did his best. History of ---- very important to all.  Love to learn about history people and land-you never know how good you have it. To keep alive the history of DeSoto and ---- in ---- ----. Gives the treaty what the explorers son for the first time.  ---- ----. Make us realize we use ---- a gift ----.  Feel sorry for the Indian. Tells FL history as well as beginning of America. Historical significance is very important learned many things. It is both historical and ----, also has a great aspect of nature. Important to let the people know about great people like De Soto. Killing Indian w/disease. As a former history teacher, very informative and interesting. Educational. Culture of Native Americans.  Nature walks.  Events from the past. Wonderful presentation Florida history. Right or wrong first European visitors to the area. Understanding Florida history. Very good for kids to learn. As a memorial to De Soto and his expedition. Provides great information ---- Native American ----. Spanish and De Soto history is valuable.  Native American heritage and understanding the price colonization takes. Great way to learn about the nation's history.  The hands on experiences at the entrance were great for the children. One piece of the puzzle that built our country. Great experience.  Thank you. To teach and ---- about history. Spanish heritage. ---- The national significance of this park is history. History of the Southeast and what happened to the native people is fascinating! The discovery and exploration of America. Introduces people to our history. Great staff and program. International significance really. Reminds us that people lived here ----.  Their culture ---- colonialism. History of Florida and De Soto. Understanding history of Florida. De Soto. Historical significance of Spanish explorers and the impact ---- ---- Native Americans. Beautiful nature and hiking.  Great history of Florida and Spain. For everyone to experience. History. It indirectly started colonization. It marks the beginning of the end for the Indians and the beginning of the European era of what is now the U.S. Last of FL undeveloped by rich developers. Long expedition. Showing the roots of the things that happened to us. Very early American discovery, opened up lots of South. Very good and a place to learn. Very informative! Very significant. Wonderful. Heritage. This is a fine museum showing the Spanish influence in ---- and the importance of DeSoto and his men. It serves to remind us that this land was taken from the original inhabitants by force. Key info about DeSoto-founding of U.S. It tells the earliest history of our Nation-the coming of the Conquistadors and their goals as well as their effect on the Native populations. To teach of our Spanish heritage and of Florida's vital role in U.S. history."
314,Fort Bowie NHS,FOBO,"The taming of the west, protecting the settlers trading to the west. Military history, national roots. Historic battle. History of war, settlement, and transportation. Education of relationship between the Apaches and the U. S. government. History. Apache tribe. Helping remember the historical part of our nation's history and preserving it for next generation. Establishing the West. A great part of our nation's history and certainly part of AZ and area. Keep our history alive. SW history of Indian wars, frontier military life. Trick question?  Valuable historic info and now we can place it! Apache and white man interaction, Butterfield stage. Significant historic importance. Documents a slice of history and PRESERVES. To research our history. History review and learning. Part of the history of western expansion. What not to do when meeting new people.  Let's learn tolerance and patience. Great historical significance in showing western settlement. The history of this fort is amazing.  We enjoyed seeing what they went through back then. Makes us aware of Indian cultures. The rich history of this area-hardships, conflicts and personal stories. Early campaign with Apaches. Learning about the indigenous people's plight. History of the early West. A reminded of the sometimes violent past in the settling of our country. Understanding of the Apache/soldier conflicts.  Stagecoach and mail routes. Amazing and fascinating part of the U. S. history of Native American history. Beautiful setting.  Historical value is very important-part of our heritage. Historical picture of the era. Historical record of our nation and the heritage of the natives of this region. History of Indian/military conflict. It preserves a time when Apache/U. S. relations were terrible. Need to have a connection to our past and hopefully learn from our mistakes. Part of our national heritage. The history of the settling. The park keeps local history alive. Westward movement. Wow!  Phenomenal to capture this part of our history-and to learn from our mistakes. shows relationships between Native Americans and new arrivals.  Important for understanding current situation of Native Americans and value of diversity. Expands learning of Arizona.  This was a wonderful surprise and well worth the effort to get here. Historic view of settling and relationship of Apaches and cavalry. Historical significance. History and culture is important and interesting. History preserved in place! History, and also such diversity in wildlife. How the military operated and lived during late 1800s. Indian Wars. Learning the history-not only of this area, but how it is connected to the rest of the country is fascinating! Loved the trail guide-Pete. Nineteenth century history (American West). Our story. Part of the historical change in the westward expansion and the cost in lives on both sides of conflict. The ---- volume of history in a very small area! The history value. Very important historical record of major events affecting our nation. Yes! Yes. Our history-but I am always reminded that our history is build on the blood of those who came before the settlers. A great piece of history! Very important to understanding the significance of water for southern AZ and safe mail/travel. Historical understanding of complicated cultural issues. Where else would we find out in-depth about the history of this area?  ""We were there,"" so to speak. No opinion. ---- History. Important insights into Native American History and their poor treatment by our early pioneers etc. Great historical value to see what it took to settle this land. History of our Southwest. Historic. The history of the Old West. Average. Historical information. Great historical value. Our sad history with the American Indian. The history of US territory and challenges of the time. We just enjoyed the history.  We have the original homestead of our (husband) ancestors and know what it took to succeed. A reminder of the difficult and ---- past of our nation. The sad situation for the Indians when the white man came West. Very important to preserve history-good and bad for the next generations. Great Park! Interprets and preserves important history. Remembering history mistake made. Tell the story of the Apache Wars. The history of all of the people that settled the West. History. The site of Fort Bowie.  It's part of our history and should be preserved. It's role in opening the west. This park is significant to the Westward expansion of our nation.  Tells the story of the conflict between native Americans and settlers. Landscapes in which historic events took place. Very peaceful and beautiful valuable history. Keeping history alive. Shows conditions of living in this area. To teach about outward trek of US US Army deployment after Civil War for development/protection settlement of the West. To point out the ---- of the Native inhabitants and the struggle to settle this part of the country. History of the West to the max. That we should learn from our mistakes and not do them in the future. The conflict between the US Army and the apaches was necessary for the development of this area in the 19th century. Affiliation with Apache 1 each male and female (party of 2). An important site in the development of the west and in the Apache wars. Fighting the Indians was a vital part of training the Wild West.  I like learning about the Indians as well. For someone, like me, interested in the history of the Old West, it was awesome to see how these people lived in this environment. Fort Bowie is still relevant because of the events in history are so meaningful and informative of the history of this area-cultures clashing etc. Historical value-amazing history! Retains the history of settling the Western USA. The ""Wild Wild West"" in its truest, most accurate. The history is very important-the education, learning about the past. Very important. Very important to US history in Southwest. White men vs Apaches-Fort life. Absolute ---- of Arizona territorial history! An example of the early interactions with the military and Apache cultures. An old military and Butterfield trails! Being Canadian these parks teach us a lot about early American history of settlers and 1st nations. Historic. Historical. History at its finest. History is so important, an additional piece of information in making decisions even today. History!  Awesome! History, beautiful country. Indian history. Indian wars of extreme interest to me. It is important to know our history and what we can do to preserve it. It shows the hardship of our ancestors and how difficult it was to just survive. Just the history of it all.  Love it!  Location is beautiful. Native American resistance/white persistance to move west and settle/inclusion or reservation?  Wrong choice? Part of the Butterfield staged mail history.  Civil War in Arizona. Preservation of military and native American culture and history. The fort's history protecting the pass and the history involving ---- and the apaches is ---- preserved and conveyed. The history of our country. This site shows the significance of establishing a fort to secure the Apache pass to protect ---- going and coming to the West. To retain and pass on the history of this park to future generations. Understanding of the cultures of Apache and Anglos and how the lack of cultural understanding leads to difficulties. Valuable history. Very nice.  5th time here. Yes provided insightful historical info to warrant advance course from ----, AZ. The relation of Native Apaches and U.S. Government. Good historical. History of Western Expansion; Military; State; Regional history. Local history with a National affect. Military history, early development of our Country, geographical, anthropological, etc. Education of mail route history as well as Native American and early Settlers. Amazing view of the Southwest. History is important-don't make the same mistake twice.  Do the good things again. Remember history re:  Settlement of the West, conflict between early Settlers and Indians harsh struggle for survival. Important to stage ---- and ---- and important to all Americans to know how we treated the Indians here. Preserve HISTORY!  Indian Wars, Settlement of the West. Preserving American history. Westward expansion of Anglos and the Native American encounters and hostilities.  I did think this was a Buffalo Soldier site, but didn't see any thing about them. This is a sacred place. Apache Wars were significant to SW History. Understanding of Indian War-following the Civil War; providing protection for migrants and settlers. Indian History. Historical and natural history. History not only of the area but esp. of Western Civilization. History-see how people lived, what they did to contribute-find out our history in this Country. Preservation of our history. Westward expansion. Important piece of our history. The ultimate poor treatment of the Indians. Historical remembrance. They fought Geranimo from here.  From 1862-1894, an important part of the development of SW. American History. Historical, Native American, Military. Information concerning the Frontier Army and its existence and interacting with the Apache. Teaches us about the history of the settlement of this part of our Country and how our predecessors lived. Interesting to see history and stories of our past. It's history of our Country!  Events in history. Excellent opportunity to learn about the past. It was a critical staging points for protecting early settlers in the Southwest. Very significant-and will be more so as our grandchildren grow up. Capture time. Historical era. History and nature. History. Key to what happened in this area. I am of Native descent and learning some thing new about my heritage, good or bad, is always an invigorating experience. A critical component in ""taming"" the Apache in the are, at least the more war-and raiding-prone ones. All the history and knowledge of our Park Ranger. Historic value. History-learned a lot-sad to be White person and realize how we changed so many lives of people who lived here before. History. History. Important historically for understanding White mans/Native America. Invaluable, a great way to see what life was like back then. It's OUR history!  Nuff said. More knowledge is needed about the role played by the Native Americans. Outstanding. Preservation of history of the conflicts and peace between the Whites and Indians. Preservation of history. Preservation of our history. Show the history. Very important-history of tragic subjugation of Native Americans. Western History/---- Ghost Town. Fun to look at? To preserve ---- of, and educate about, the confirmation of Whites expanding the western frontier and Native Americans (Apaches) and to educate about the Apache way of life. History! History. Mexican American War/Civil War. For me who lives East of the Fort, I am thankful to learn of the people who settled this area-who gave their lives that I may live in this beautiful Country. History of Indians and Calvary. History of interactions of Indians and Settlers. History. Letting future generations know what struggles people endured to expand the Nation, and who they hurt in the process. Love it.  We are from Fort Boyar NHL. Love the History! Superb experience to educate visitors en-route. The historic structures and the historic events of the area. Very important to post Civil War U.S. history. Very important-we need to preserve the past! Very informative and greet for 4-H learning and history class for online school credit. Indian Wars were a rough time.  We should know the history.  Love this Park. History of establishing rule of law in the territories. Preservation of history. One of THE most important to Indian war era.  One of top 3 forty for Apache wars. Integral to western U.S. history. Historical. Historic, very informative. Military protection of historical significance. A glimpse into history of the Indian wars and the factors leading up to it. Western history and Indian actions good or bad. History: military, growth movement west. This is part of our history.  We should take good care of it. Preservation of history and national beauty. History of Fort Bowie. A record of the tragic history of U.S. and Apache relations. It is significant to remember Cochise and the Apache's history with the US Army in this area. Adds to the valuable history of this small but significant area of our country. Civil war-post civil war-Indian territory campaigns as way of life. Historical value. History. It is valuable to learn about the making of this country.  It is fun to imagine what it must have been like. This is one of the most relevant sites concerning our relationship with Native Americans. To communicate the importance of the Apache nation and their interaction with the US army. History. Historical record based on the ---- and end of the Indian ----. 10 The equal of Ft. Davis NHS in TX. Shows the way the soldiers had to live in the 1800's and the trials they had to put up with. Apache history. It provides information on the clash of cultures here and the Apache life ways changed so dramatically by westward expansion. Very significant.  It touches on a lot of stories. Telling the story of interaction between the Indians and white man. We need to learn from our history to stay being a democracy. Great historical experience. Thanks for the opportunity-loved it. Fort Bowie Park established to provide history of Butterfield Apache and Calvary and keep it going!! American history-Native American information. History, nature, fitness. Our heritage. Preserving a very important part of our history.  This area should be taken care of for future generations. Preserving Ft. Bowie and it's history. Really shows the hardships people went through on both sides-the Native Americans as well as the frontiersman. The long hike gives you the ""feel"" of the landscape.  Excellent informative ---- along the way.  I loved this site-don't build a road in.  The hike is a great experience for those who really want to learn the history and appreciate the surroundings. We need to learn about history to better our lives in the present. We realize that so many people were involved in developing this country. Value of water, great history trip. Shows the significance of the Butterfield stagecoach for the grieving ----.  Site of numerous conflicts between the Apache and white settlers. Preserving history and our heritage. Very important history. History of the old west. It is a critical piece/segment of the story of manifest destiny-and how things done and choices made had profound influence on events-i.e. Apache today growing up in ---- rather then here. Never forget who originally occupies these lands! The history is interesting and valuable to the understanding of our country. Incredible historical. Describes Apache Wars and provides insight to local military population. Indian and American soldier rangers. Showing people the way it was. This was one of several forts build during the Indian Wars.  It's interesting to visit them and see how they were related to, and supported, each other. Great history of U. S. military and Apaches. Was a great historical, educational learning trip. An important part of our history. The ""winning"" of the West ended here. History. Its historic value is a national treasure.  So glad it has been preserved. You can see how the people lived in the 1800s and see artifacts from that era. Educates me about history.  I loved it! History needing preservation. Preserve the history of SW Army and Apache; recreation for visitors. Showed early America and relations between settlers and natives. The history of the U.S. Military and Apache Indians. The history of the ---- with settlers and the native Americans. Informative history. Westward expansion. A reminder of SW history. Beautiful history and landscape and hiking opportunity. Beautiful landscape and history of this place. History of the nation is very important for future generations. It's important to preserve our America's history for future generations. The history. Very nice. First time for me and my son. Our history, learning, preservation. The historic significance is invaluable. Conflict between US and Native Americans. Historic relevance of our ---- history.  Indian history. History. Nature beauty and cultural history."
315,Amistad NRA,AMIS,"Friendship between U.S./Texas and Mexico. Waterway and fishing. Fishing. Preserve nature, water conservation. I feel it acts as an oasis in the desert, and who doesn't think those are not important? Closest to South Texas without being South Texas for birding. A great lake for recreation ----. The national significance of this park is the cooperation that the U.S. and Mexico have shown is operating this lake. Very significant. Bass, white bass, great scenery, kayaking. Black bush park road large holes in road. Rich in history. Learning of the natural environment. Don't have an answer for this question; to deep for me. History. Outdoor wildlife. To let people know how beautiful this country is. Very important! Outdoor recreation. Good picnic area and fishing. To show another side of nature. Water storage irrigation. To show another side of nature. Forgotten culture. Lots of culture, history. Yes. Pretty nice out here. Better signaled on Highway 90 from NW indicating where the Visitor Center is. Lighting in restroom. Preserve surroundings. The offer a great outdoor experience in the ---- A place that brings people together, great for friendship. Significant recreational opportunities to distress and preserve historical environmental historical treasures. Great camping. The historical area around ---- I.D.K. Incredible place. Recreation. Wilderness. Bridge between nature and modern society. Very good. Fishing for all ages. Water activity-scenic-educational about the native culture-very great park. Good. Provide water during drought, protect land recreations, opportunities to explore nature at her best. Wonderful history of this area and great ----."
316,Cape Lookout NS,CALO,"Seashore preservation. It is both of historical value and beauty.  Truly a treasure. Independent historical light house. Lighthouse are a part of North Carolina history and coastal legacy. Preservation of nature and the enjoyment of nature. Historical and species significance, hopefully it remains in good health. Beauty of coastline, animals, historical significance. Giving people an opportunity to experience ---- between nature ---- ---- with civilization, ---- ---- ----- ----. Helps people understand the importance of the ocean and how valuable it's resources are to us. This helps preserve a national seashore for all to enjoy and keep nature piece a ---- the light house. To preserve the seashore and it's natural habitats and native species and of course the lighthouse. The value of our beginning and the focus of sea life style. It's beauty and historical importance. Working historic lighthouse, protected wild horses. Preservation of lighthouse and nature sanctuary for marine, ocean, plant (etc.) and mammalian forms of life. North Carolina's environmental resources and cultural heritage are invaluable NATIONAL treasures. A natural remaining seashore/island. One of the last underdeveloped stretches of barrier island in the nation. All historical landmarks, such as Cape lookout lighthouse, are significant to the nation. Maritime history. To me it's a landmark everyone should explore.  Love it.  Will recommend. The historical significance of our history and the infrastructure to support ----. More time history. This history that the lighthouse has for all of the help it provided to the ----. History, recreation. Because of its lack of development it gives us a great sense of a natural barrier island. It is a very different and wonderful landscape to enjoy. Preserve banks and history of area. It is a part of our history and defines our state. Safe shipping and national defense. Great bench, beautiful views, lighthouse is 24/7! It's beauty and strong links to North Carolina's cultural and historical past. National significance. Beautiful-serene; uncomercial wildlife abundant. The beauty of our land and learning about the history. The availability of historical information specific to this Park and town is absolutely refreshing. Significant to maritime history. We love the lighthouse and it great for all ages. Good fishing. Wildlife and beauty of the nature. The experience of wild life. Beautiful beach on an island full of wild life. This place is paradise! The wild life and all of the wonderful sights! This park is great for everybody. To present the Cape Lookout Light house and Keepers Home and grounds to all that core, to show how lives were saved from ship wrecks on the outer banks. All. The history and importance that Portsmouth Island played. For the people. The large size with very little population. History. Lighthouse. The importance of the lighthouse and how often the ---- charge. Strackleford Banks is a wonderful nature preserve. The fact that there are no oil rings in sight and no commercial development. To protect and educate. Not commercialized or over developed, representative of barrier island from past, preservation of wildlife ecology. Nature preserves historical significance, education ---- and history save lighthouses. Undeveloped sea shore is a wonderland! The presence of wild horses and ---- ----. Keeping history alive for future generations knowledge. Very pleasing and friendly people. 0 Beautiful scenery-pristine nature, historic light house. To expand my growing knowledge of the nation's history and local history. Peaceful.  Calming.  Wish I could bottle it and take it home! The wild horses and environment on Shackleford Bank are a strong reminder of our history and responsibility to protect the wild. Lighthouse property. History and beauty."
317,Lassen Volcanic NP,LAVO,"0 Wide open space, trails, mountains, meadows, geological formations all unique, all different from any other national parks. Beautiful scenery and interesting volcanic features. No idea. Volcanic activity. Its history! Educating about volcanic and human history of Lassen Peak area. Volcanic/geothermal features. Wonderful addition to the national park system-very significant because of ease of access for a large ----. Unique geology, history, geography, wild life habitat; we ---- or heard of bears on the Kings Creek Falls trail. Fairly recent volcano and you can study what happens in its aftermath. Beautiful area-worth preserving and rare example of volcanic geology. It is a symbol and actual representation of the wilderness that still prevails-humans do not conquer and inhabit all the woods of this country. The volcano experience at Lassen is fabulous!  Cinder Cone and Mt Lassen hikes just fabulous experience. Volcanic and geologic uniqueness is special, the eco system that goes with that, the recovery of forest and native American legacy. Unique geologic site, but not of national significance. Protecting nature for the future generations. The opportunity to learn about geothermal science. Lots of mature trees, burnt ones from the terrible fire, Lassen was nice. This park signifies the eruption of Mt. Lassen 100 years ago.  It should be kept as a national park. Ties us to the Pacific Rim and Ring of Fire-shows our nation's connection to the world ----. Extreme beauty, hydrothermic activity, places that the public can have access to and lean from! This is a geological wonder, for Californians Bumpass Hell is much closer than Yellowstone to view hot pots and funerals. To appreciate America and see its natural, untouched beauty. Recent volcanic activity, on going mud pot eruptions, natural beauty. It's historical importance on a US volcanic site, the preservation of our dwindling natural resources. Volcanic activity, scenic beauty. It's a geological wonder.  Very interesting learning experience on nature and it's transportation. Shows what happened since early 20th century exceptions.  Allows you to get up close to today's volcanic activity. Open land.  Just beautiful sights.  Makes you feel FREE. It is a reminder of significant changes brought about through volcanic activity, and it gives one a perspective on the time these charges occurred compared to human's time on the planet. Geology, nature. For its unique geology."
318,Allegheny Portage Railroad NHS,ALPO,"History of railroad portage and westward expansion. A scooter to use in viewing the park.  Wonderful trails for using ----. This park ""bridges"" the eras of the canals and the railroads- 1800's and 1840's. Very key to progress and prosperity of the region.  They did what they had to do to survive, really, and if it took building a RR then build it they did. Opening trade from coast to interior in a more speedy fashion. History of Pennsylvania, of its rail and canal system. It lets people learn about transportation and how the Steam Engine was the newest technology of the time. Yes, it depicted a part of history that I knew nothing about. Preservation of our history. Wonderful show of how the Canal Boats were able to ""climb"" the Mountains.  Fascinating. More local-should be taught more locally. Unique ---- place railroad. Westward expansion key during 1800's. First railroad over the mountains. Lost history. Never knew PA had a Canal. Transportation Revolution! Good to hear about trains with kids. 1st railroad there. Very important part of transportation system of our country. Conversations by connecting ---- apart or nation's ---- ----/trail routes. Historical understanding. Innovation with technology. Preserving the history of the portage railroad. The Allegheny Portage railroad was remarkable for that era.  It is incredible what are ancestors went thru to make things better.  It is amazing to see. This was means for the expansion west. History of the railroad systems. The history of the railroad is significant to our whole nation's history. History. History. History, education. Significant to demonstrate the transportation history and westward expansion of our nation. American ingenuity creativity, resourcefulness, step in developing/settling country. A piece of Engineering and American Spirit to over come obstacles.  Fantastic Park! History of our area.  Where we came from.  Culture of area-forefathers, how our country was built. A Portage railroad between the canals where a mountain blocked them (Water Canals). The railroad allowed for easier travel between Pittsburgh and Philadelphia which increases travel, trade, transport, good etc. The railroad-a gateway to the West.  Great historical influence.  Lemon house original hotel for travelers. Road and railway to Pgh and the West. It is extremely rare. This park showed a glimpse into how goods were transported in the past and how the portage railroad revolutionized the process. It shows the historical importance of an American transportation updates. Serves as an example of technology and transportation. It educates people on the significance of Pennsylvania in the early 1800s. Breakthrough in opening the West. It shows a glimpse into how people weren't going to get a mountain stand in their way.  Ingenuity and American spirit. It teaches people the history of the nation when the country was still young. Transportation and commerce. This park provided a great historic adventure for my family.  Clean, great movie, and nice mechanical displays. Connected Pennsylvania to the frontier by over ---- the mountains. Railroad commerce to transportation. Very interesting and important. Historic information and exercise also enjoyment of nature. Opened the west-early form of transportation. Documenting early form of transportation. Early transportation history in settling West of the Allegheny. To memorialize to the people ---- This park shows how people and freight traveled over the Allegheny mountains in the 1800. It shows the invention of a system to move cargo in a more efficient way.  Saving time and manpower. Historic time in PA history of transportation. Finding a way quicker way to get goods and people over the mountain. Early transportation and settling of the West. ---- ----. Helped move things. The canal that transferred people and things faster. The national significance  of this Park is that it benefited trade and transportation in the Portage and Allegheny area. The significance is that it had kept the railroad in tack underground. It shows our ---- ---- obstacles. This railway helped people ---- ---- Nation.  It helped get goods from A to B in a much shorter time. Help to move the Country Westward. Settlement of the West. Learning about how the Portage worked with canals. Good. The value of transportation the RR provided. The importance is the affect it had on America.  Without the railroad, we would not have the technology we do to day. Yes, the recreation of the railroads taught me a lot about the significance. History of local area. Excellent history of Transportation, determination of USA Spirit! Good nice people and very clean. How man can ""move"" mountains the importance of perservence. Learned a piece of history of canals and railroads which I was not aware of. The transportation route. A very important piece of history and understanding of nature. Big part of transportation. Educating on marvel of 1850's-60's movement and transport E to W or vice versa. Historical value and story it tells of days gone by It has historical significance of bringing the railroads to our area. Shows the history of the area. The railroad building. The Railroad building. The transportation value East to West across it. This was an area that helped transport goods through out the Nation. To tour ---- ---- the area. ---- It teaches us about the history of where we live and attend school. ---- It teaches about our history. The Allegheny railroad was extremely important during its time. Transportation history. Transferring items quicker. The railroad. It changed the way of transportation I think, I can't exactly remember. The innovation and technology's evolution and the impact it had on the region/state/nation. Historic preservation. It tells a lot about the history of Westward expansion, and helps remind people of what used to be prominent in our country. Brought railroad to PA. Great history lesson of times past. How people, their ideas, and commerce grew our country and PA in particular.  It is a slice of history.  It's a gem! It helped deliver crops and things that need used. It transported good faster. It transported goods faster by railroad. Westward expansion, engineering marvel. It reduced the amount of time to move products over the mountains. The railroad. It's beautiful, the nature and environment are what hooked me. It pioneered a new way to travel across the nation. History behind Pennsylvania railroad. The significance was the railroad and its uses. To show the importance of the railroad. Transportation, industrialization. It shows the significance of our area is the westward movement into the country. Shows how railroads used to be. Began a new way to transport goods.  It's important and interesting to learn about it. To inform others of how this great nation was established. To keep the historical aspect alive. The significance is that it was the only way we expanded and survived. Shows how pulleys were used and how it affected not only those near the railroad, but the Country as a whole. Keep history ----. It is a big part of the Pioneering Age. To inform people about local history. Allegheny Portage Railroad portrays (history) travel over the Allegheny Mountains. Great history and such a nice place to visit and picnic and walk. The national significance of this park is that it aided in the connection of ---- of the United States."
319,Maggie L. Walker NHS,MAWA,"This is a great opportunity to learn more about a person that history has forgotten in many ways-a role model. Maggie Walker is an underappreciated and impressive ---- in African-American history who had a national profile. America's cultural heritage. To better understand contributions and value of Maggie Walker in Richmond and nationally. I like the fact that is highlights a prominent woman. To show the life of Maggie L. Walker and her accomplishments and history. Black history, financial history, RUA history. History of a legend.  So excited to learn about her. The history and her accomplishments. The overall success and determination of a black woman and the inspiration she instilled with other generations. Awareness, recognition and cultural awareness. Exemplifies determination and strength of women; great example for young girls. First African-American female bank owner-fantastic! Black history. A very important site to illustrate black history. It preserves the history of women from the past to give confidence to women today. Maggie L. Walker is the face of hard work and determination of America. Remarkable woman of color who set a most giving and exemplary example for all. To show how hard work and perseverance can make you a successful person. Amazing, very important, history is important. Hard work, determination and passion for people can make a huge significance in the world. History is the key to our future-know where I came to, know where to go. It teaches and gives an eye view that books don't. All Mrs. Walker accomplished and why because she saw a need! Black and women's place in history. The exhibits. Demonstrating the ability of African Americans to succeed despite barriers and disadvantages. High significance.  The people should know about this. Maggie L. Walkers first female African American banker and her success. The courage and cooperative skill of a major leader who used critical thinking and long term planning to create lasting change. The important role that it has for the African American community. That a black woman was able to with good on her side, prove that any person, especially a woman is capable of growing an organization and a business! The national significance of this park is to show people of all ages young and old how much influence came from the life of one woman. An awesome experience!  I am new to Richmond, and learned a great deal during this visit! Extremely significant because African American history is still not well-known enough. Maggie L Walker is an important and symbolic figure in the post ---- south, demonstrating the achievements of African American's and women in the face of oppression. History of African female leader. It is a monument to black wealth and what we need to do a ----. Excellent historic house great tour guide. Very good. It's amazing to celebrate African American and women's history all at one site. Ashley did a fabulous job with her tour. Great way to learn about awesome historical people. This site has significance because its part of what the Nation true value. Historic area information of Maggie L. Walker, present figure in the African-American community (female information is enjoyable).  Will visit again. Extremely important to recognize contributions of African-Americans, especially today in these times. Important element in Richmond's history. National significance of rare relations and ability of a black woman to attain such a lifestyle so close in time to the Civil War era. The value of history and hard work in America. To bring awareness to the contributions people of color have given to our country. To show how Maggie L. Walker helped the black community. Bringing history to life. To inform people about Maggie Walker. Allowing the community to know the importance and magnitude of who Maggie Walk was! Maggie Walker was and is a fantastic resource to learn about African-American ---- history.  The house is amazing. Afro-American history of prominent figure. Historical, meaningful and exposure! It helps to learn about Maggie Walker's life. The great history of Maggie Walker. Outstanding achievements by American women are rarely if ever celebrated, this historic site is a testament to achievement. First African-American female bank president. First time user as part of reunion. Beautiful park. Helps ---- nation. Opportunity for health fitness and exercise family oriented. The first black woman to be president and owner of bank. Honor Maggie Walker, who made a tremendous difference in the world by her work, positive attitude and ---- contributions to the African American. The significant accomplishments of Maggie Walker and how she empowered her community. It is educational to all people about the contributions of African Americans to the history of the USA. It's important to learn about the atrocities as well as later the accomplishments of African Americans after the emancipation of slavery was declared. Learning this part of American history adds something POSITIVE to the list.  There is so much negative history here.  This tour was encouraging. It emphasizes the values of education and community service. African American heritage at work-courage-beautiful story -life/incredible lady.  Role model for all citizens/in America all is possible."
